1st January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Indian scientists at ___________ and National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research
(N CP OR) have captured the first-ever image of anactivehydrothermal ventin the Indian Ocean.
A. National Institute of Ocean Technology(N IO T), Chennai
B. Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services(I NC OI S), Hyderabad
C. Vels Institute of Science, Technology & Advanced Studies, Chennai
D. National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting(N CM RW F), Noida
Answer: A. National Institute of Ocean Technology(N IO T), Chennai
Q) Recently, India and which of the following countries has signed an Mo U which will institutionalizebilateral
cooperationin the area of defence, and key areasof cooperation include training, exchange of personnel and experts, joint
exercises etc.?
A. Saudi Arabia
B. United Arab Emirates
C. Oman
D. Kuwait
Answer: D. Kuwait
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has introduced 2 experimental upgrades to its Gemini Artificial
Intelligence(A I) suite “Gemini-Exp-1206 and Gemini2.0 Flash”?
A. Microsoft
B. Google
C. Nvidia
D. I BM
Answer: B. Google
Q) Recently, Central Government has abolished the "no-detention" policyfor Classes 5 and 8 in schoolsgoverned by it. It
will be applicable to ___________.
A. Kendriya Vidyalayas(K Vs)
B. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas(J NVs)
C. Eklavya Model Residential Schools(E MR S)
D. All of the Above
Answer: D. All of the Above
Q) As per recent data shared by Election Commissionof India, __________ has recorded the highest turnoutat 92.3% in
Lok Sabha elections 2024.
A. Sriperumbudur, Tamil Nadu
B. Dhubri, Assam
C. Srinagar
D. Balasore, Odisha
Answer: B. Dhubri, Assam
Q) Recently, India and China have signed an agreement to promote trade through the Nathu La pass. Nathu La pass
connects which of the following Indian states with Tibet in China?
A. Arunachal Pradesh
B. Sikkim
C. Himachal Pradesh
D. Uttarakhand
Answer: B. Sikkim
Q) Recently, ‘Scientific Aptitude Assessment Exercise’ under JI GY AS A programhas been conducted online.J IG YA SA
program was launched by ____________.
A. Department of Biotechnology(D BT)
B. Council of Scientific & Industrial Research(C SI R)
C. Indian Council of Medical Research(I CM R)
D. Technology Information, Forecasting and
Assessment Council(T IF AC)
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: B. Council of Scientific & Industrial Research(C SI R)
Q) Recently, who among the following was awarded Bahrain’s‘Medal of Efficiency’(First Class)?
A. Naresh Trehan
B. Prathap Chandra Reddy
C. Dr. Ravi Pillai
D. Dr Raju Vaishya
Answer: C. Dr. Ravi Pillai
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has unveiled first Type 076 amphibious assault ship, the ‘Sichuan’?
A. China
B. Taiwan
C. Japan
D. Russia
Answer: A. China
Q) Recently, Rajasthan government hasdissolvednineof the 17 districts as well asthree divisionscreatedin 2023. Which
of the following division has not been dissolved, as per the orders?
A. Sikar
B. Pali
C. Bharatpur
D. Banswara
Answer: C. Bharatpur
●
Threenewdivisionswerealsodissolvedinastatecabinetmeetingchairedby Chief Minister Bhajan Lal
Sharma.
●
The state will now only have7 divisions and 41 districts.
●
The previous Ashok Gehlot government had formed17new districts and three new divisions.
●
It had also issued a notification for three new districts, which is also being cancelled by the Bhajan Lal
Sharma government.
●
Rajasthangovernmenthasdecidedtoretain Balotra,Beawar,Deeg,Didwana-Kuchaman,Kotputli-Behror,
Khairthal-Tijara, Phalodi and Salumbharfrom amongthe districts created by the Congress.
●
Thecabinethasdecidednottoretainninenewlycreateddistricts--Anupgarh,Dudu,Gangapur City,Jaipur
Rural, Jodhpur Rural, Kekri, Neem Ka Thana, Sanchore and Shahpura.
●
Banswara, Paliand Sikardivisions weredissolvedby the state cabinet.
●
Ithasalsodecidedtocancelthreenewdistricts--Malpura,Sujangarhand Kuchaman City,whichwere
announced just before the elections.
●
Inanotherdecisiontakeninthecabinetmeeting,Schedule-1of Rule14of Rajasthan Civil Services(Revised
Pay)Rules,2017,wereamendedtomakethevalidityof Common Eligibility Testscoresvalidforthreeyearsin
Rajasthan, instead of one year.
●
The cabinet has decided to reorganise thepanchayat,panchayat samitis and district councilsin the state.
Q) Recently, who among the following has won FI DE World Rapid Championship 2024?
A. Vaishali Rameshbabu
B. Koneru Humpy
C. Harika Dronavalli
D. Divya Deshmukh
Answer: B. Koneru Humpy
Q) Recently,Kristrun Mjoll Frostadottirhas beenappointed as new Prime Minister of which of the following countries?
A. Finland
B. France
C. Iceland
D. Germany
Answer: C. Iceland
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has signed Memorandum of Understandings(Mo U) with Japan’s
Yamanashi Prefecturefor industrial cooperation, tourismand vocational education?
A. Manipur
B. Madhya Pradesh
C. Uttar Pradesh
D. Tamil Nadu
Answer: C. Uttar Pradesh
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has announced formation of an Artificial Intelligence(A I)
Taskforceto adopt technology driven governance inorder to "keep the state in leading position in social and economic
development"?
A. Gujarat
B. Madhya Pradesh
C. Rajasthan
D. Bihar
Answer: A. Gujarat
Q) Recently, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Vinai Kumar Saxena has inaugurated India's longest 18-hole golfcourse, spread
across 7,377 yards, in Dwarka, Delhi. It is constructed by ___________.
A. N BC C(India) Limited
B. Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited(H UD CO)
C. Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd.(D SI ID C)
D. Delhi Development Authority(D DA)
Answer: D. Delhi Development Authority(D DA)
Q) Recently, Boxing Federation of India(B FI) has announced that India will host the World Boxing Cup Final 2025and
the 3rd edition of World Boxing Congress in November 2025 in which of the following cities?
A. Gurugram
B. New Delhi
C. Panchkula
D. Bhopal
Answer: B. New Delhi
Q) Recently,Osamu Suzuki, who led Suzuki Motor formore than four decades, has passed away. He was associated with
which of the following countries?
A. China
B. South Korea
C. Japan
D. Taiwan
Answer: C. Japan
Q) As per recent information, Wildlife Institute of India(Dehradun) is preparing to execute India’s first Fishing Cat
Collaring Project at Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary. Thissanctuary is associated with which of the following states?
A. Tamil Nadu
B. Gujarat
C. Kerala
D. Andhra Pradesh
Answer: D. Andhra Pradesh
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
2nd January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has introduced CR450, world’s fastest high-speed train
prototype, with test speeds reaching 450 km/h?
A. Russia
B. China
C. Japan
D. Australia
Answer: B. China
●
Developers- C RR C Changchun Railway Vehicles(Changchun,Jilin, China) and C RR C Sifang Co., Ltd
(Qingdao, Shandong, China).
Q) Recently, A AP supremo Arvind Kejriwal has launched the Pujari Granthi Samman Yojana. Under the scheme,all the
Hindu temple priests and granthis of Gurudwaras will be paid a monthly honorarium of ___________.
A. ₹15,000
B. ₹12,000
C. ₹20,000
D. ₹18,000
Answer: D. ₹18,000
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has launched a new citizen-centric initiative called the SW AR
(Speech and Written Analysis Resource) platform?
A. Andhra Pradesh
B. Gujarat
C. Maharashtra
D. Madhya Pradesh
Answer: B. Gujarat
Q) Recently, ___________, an ancient form of love song from Bosnia and Herzegovina was included in UN ES CO’s
National Inventory of Intangible Cultural Heritage.
A. Kolo
B. Nsima
C. Sevdalinka
D. Kochari
Answer: C. Sevdalinka
Q) Recently, keel laying ceremony of third Cadet Training Ship,Yard 18005was held. The contract for indigenousdesign
and construction of three Cadet Training Ships was concluded between Ministry of Defence and which of the following
companies?
A. Cochin Shipyard Limited
B. Bharat Dynamics Limited
C. Larsen & Toubro Limited
D. Munitions India Limited
Answer: C. Larsen & Toubro Limited
Q) Recently, ___________ has won their maiden Pro Kabaddi League title(Season 11)after defeating Patna Pirates in the
final.
A. Jaipur Pink Panthers
B. Puneri Paltan
C. U Mumba
D. Haryana Steelers
Answer: D. Haryana Steelers
●
Mohammadreza Shadloui was awarded the Most Valuable Player(M VP) of the season for hisall-round
brilliance.The Iranianalsowonthe Best Defenderawardfor82tacklepoints,whilst Patna Pirates’Devank
Dalalbagged the Best Raider trophyfor 301 raid points.
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Delhi High Courthas ordered signing of an Mo U between Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and
Delhi Government for implementing which of the following schemes in the national capital?
A. Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana(A B P M-J AY)
B. Pradhan Mantri – Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission(P M-A BH IM)
C. Central Government Health Scheme(C GH S)
D. Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana(R SB Y)
Answer: B. Pradhan Mantri – Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission(P M-A BH IM)
Q) Recently, Ministry of Defence has signed a contract with which of the following companies for construction of Air
Independent Propulsion(A IP) Plugfor D RD O-A IP system& its integration onboard Indian Submarines?
A. Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Ltd(G RS E)
B. Cochin Shipyard Ltd
C. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
D. Goa Shipyard Limited
Answer: C. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
Q) Recently,Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh(S AA P)has launched a first-of-its-kind mobile applicationto improve
sports management across the state. What is the name of this application?
A. Kriya App
B. Khiladi App
C. Kreeda App
D. Pratiyogita App
Answer: C. Kreeda App
Q) Recently, who among the following has been assigned the officiating charge for the post of Director General of
Central Reserve Police Force(C RP F)?
A. Rajwinder Singh Bhatti
B. Daljit Singh Chaudhary
C. Vitul Kumar
D. Amrit Mohan Prasad
Answer: C. Vitul Kumar
Q) Recently,Mizoram governmenthas entered into a Memorandum of Agreement(Mo A) with its partner banks – State
Bank of India(S BI), Mizoram Rural Bank(M RB), and Mizoram Co-operative Apex Bank Limited(M CA B) for the
disbursement of loans under _____________.
A. Swami Vivekananda Youth Empowerment Scheme
B. Bana Kaih(handholding) Scheme
C. Sarothi Scheme
D. Orunodoi Scheme
Answer: B. Bana Kaih(handholding) Scheme
Q) Recently, who among the following has made history by becoming theyoungest femalein the world to scalethe
highest peaks on each of the seven continents?
A. Anshu Jamsenpa
B. Shivangi Pathak
C. Kaamya Karthikeyan
D. Malavath Purna
Answer: C. Kaamya Karthikeyan
Q) Recently, ____________ has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with the Ghana Space Scienceand
Technology Institute(G SS TI)to enhance cooperationin satellite communications and the broader space industry.
A. Bellatrix Aerospace
B. Agni Kul Cosmos Private Limited
C. Satcom Industry Association India(S IA-India)
D. Antrix Corporation Limited
Answer: C. Satcom Industry Association India(S IA-India)
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has declared ‘Ratha Saptami(also known as Sun God festival)’ as a
state festival for 3 days at Sri Suryanarayana Swamy Temple?
A. Tamil Nadu
B. Odisha
C. Andhra Pradesh
D. Bihar
Answer: C. Andhra Pradesh
Q) Recently, Kho Kho Federation of India(K KF I) has announced who among the following as the Co-Brand Ambassador
for inaugural Kho Kho World Cup 2025?
A. Tiger Shroff
B. Akshay Kumar
C. Hrithik Roshan
D. Aamir Khan
Answer: A. Tiger Shroff
Q) Recently, an Mo U was signed between Water Resources Department of which of the following states and Space
Applications Centre- Indian Space Research Organisation(S AC-I SR O)to improve the management and developmentof
water resources by incorporating space technology?
A. Maharashtra
B. Gujarat
C. Kerala
D. Tamil Nadu
Answer: B. Gujarat
Q) Recently, Karnataka government has issued an order to celebrate ‘Computer Data Entry Operators’ Day’every year on
December 26 to mark the birth anniversary of who among the following?
A. Herman Hollerith
B. Alan Turing
C. Charles Babbage
D. Donald Knuth
Answer: C. Charles Babbage
Q) Denmark Strait cataractholds the distinction ofbeing the largest waterfall on Earth. It is situated in the underwater
channel between ____________.
A. Iceland and Sweden
B. Iceland and Norway
C. Ireland and Greenland
D. Iceland and Greenland
Answer: D. Iceland and Greenland
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
3rd January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) As per the recently released Association for Democratic Reforms(A DR)report, “Analysis of
Current Chief Ministers from 28 State Assemblies and 3 Union Territories of India 2024”, who among
the following is identified as the richest Chief Minister in India?
A. Mamata Banerjee
B. Pema Khandu
C. N Chandrababu Naidu
D. Omar Abdullah
Answer: C. N Chandrababu Naidu
Q) Recently,N AS A's James Webb Space Telescopedetected an exoplanet larger than Earth, located in a habitable zone,
with the potential for life-supporting conditions. What is the name of this exoplanet?
A. K2-18 b
B. K3-15 b
C. K2-16 c
D. K5-18 b
Answer: A. K2-18 b
●
K2-18b,alsocalledas EP IC201912552bandisconsideredanexoplanetthatrevolvesaroundareddwarf
starcalled K2-18.
●
Itislocatedinapartofspacecalled'habitablezone',aregionwheretheprobableconditionsarefavorablefor
the presence ofliquid water-with it, creating an environment for other possible extraterrestrial life forms.
●
Atadistanceofabout124lightyearsfrom Earth,K2-18 Bincreasesthechanceoffindinglifeoutthere
because it has about2.6 times the radiusand 8.6 times the mass of our planet.
●
N AS A's Kepler Space Telescope first discovered the planet in 2009. Later, a more detailedanalysisofits
atmosphere was just recently achieved by the James Webb Space Telescopeduring its mission.
Q) Recently, the deadline for determining the payable amount under the Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024has
been extended till _____________ by Central Board of Direct Taxes(C BD T).
A. March 31, 2025
B. January 31, 2025
C. July 1, 2025
D. August 1, 2025
Answer: B. January 31, 2025
Q) Recently, researchers at which of the following institutes have developed ashockwave-based, needle-free syringethat
ensures painless drug delivery, reducing skin damage and the risk of infection?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madras
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Kanpur
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Delhi
Answer: C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
Q) As per recent information, thefirst made-in-India surgical robot ‘S SI Mantra’has been installed at which of following
location after receiving approval by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(C DS CO)?
A. Artemis Hospital, Gurgaon
B. Noble Hospitals and Research Centre, Pune
C. Indian Spinal Injuries Centre(I SI C), New Delhi
D. Max Super Speciality Hospital, Noida
Answer: B. Noble Hospitals and Research Centre, Pune
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Which of the following companies has recently unveiled the“B D475-2 Dozer”,India's largest and most advanced
crawler dozer designed for heavy-duty tasks?
A. Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited
B. Engineering Projects(India) Limited
C. B EM L Limited
D. Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited
Answer: C. B EM L Limited
Q) The Indian Space Research Organisation(I SR O) recently achieved another milestone with the successful launch of the
P SL V-C60 rocket, carrying the Space Docking Experiment(Spa De X). This mission deployed two spacecraft, S DX01 and
S DX02, also referred to as ___________ and ____________, respectively.
A. Pathfinder, Observer
B. Chaser, Target
C. Initiator, Responder
D. Pursuer, Docker
Answer: B. Chaser, Target
Q) As per recently released results of Household Consumption Expenditure Survey: 2023-24(H CE S: 2023-24)by
Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation(Mo SP I), the average Monthly Per Capita Consumption
Expenditure(M PC E) in rural India in 2023-24 has been estimated to be ______________.
A. Rs. 5,166
B. Rs. 3,272
C. Rs. 4,122
D. Rs. 6,184
Answer: C. Rs. 4,122
Q) Recently,India’s first glass bridgeover sea has been inaugurated at which of the following locations?
A. Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu
B. Puri, Odisha
C. Diu, Daman and Diu
D. Kochi, Kerala
Answer: A. Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu
Q) As per the recently released“Annual Ground Water Quality Report for the year 2024”, which of the following cations
is the most prevalent in the groundwater?
A. Potassium
B. Sodium
C. Calcium
D. Magnesium
Answer: C. Calcium
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has successfully tested the UA V-122 supersonic missilefrom the Bayraktar
Akinci drone, strengthening its role in drone technology, and raising concerns for regional rivals?
A. Iran
B. Turkey
C. Iraq
D. Pakistan
Answer: B. Turkey
Q) Recently, which of the following institutes has hosted the first edition of the International Conference on Leveraging
Emerging Technologies and Analytics for Development(L EA D-2024)under the theme "Empowering Humanity"?
A. Indian Institute of Management–Shillong(I IM Shillong)
B. Indian Institute of Management–Calcutta(I IM Calcutta)
C. Indian Institute of Management–Ahmedabad(I IM Ahmedabad) D.Indian Institute of Management–Kashipur(I IM Kashipur)
Answer: A. Indian Institute of Management–Shillong(I IM Shillong)
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) As per recent information, who among the following has authored the book titled“Chhaunk On Food,
Economics and Society”?
A. Venkatraman Ramakrishnan
B. Amartya Sen
C. Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee
D. Kailash Satyarthi
Answer: C. Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has become the first Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance(B FS I)
companyto offer all three-core financial services lending, insurance, and Mutual Fund(M F) investments on the Open
Network for Digital Commerce(O ND C) platform?
A. Aditya Birla Capital Limited
B. Bajaj Holdings & Investment Limited
C. G IC Housing Finance Limited
D. Tata Capital Limited
Answer: A. Aditya Birla Capital Limited
Q) Recently, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade(D PI IT)has entered a strategic partnership
with which of the following companies to foster innovation and support D PI IT-recognized startups, especially in the
Direct-to-Consumer(D2 C) and manufacturing sectors?
A. Zebronics
B. Swiggy
C. Zomato
D. bo At
Answer: D. bo At
Q) Recently, who among the following was awarded the‘Sri Chandrasekarendra Saraswathi National Eminence Award’
for Public Leadership from the South Indian Education Society(S IE S)?
A. Venkaiah Naidu
B. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar
C. Piyush Goyal
D. Narendra Modi
Answer: B. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has successfully launched its thirdsurveillance satellite, equipped with
Synthetic Aperture Radar(S AR) technology, into space using a Space X Falcon 9 rocket?
A. Sri Lanka
B. Israel
C. South Korea
D. Japan
Answer: C. South Korea
Q) Recently,Jimmy Carter, the winner of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize, passed away. He served as the 39th President of
which of the following countries?
A. Canada
B. Australia
C. United Kingdom
D. United States
Answer: D. United States
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
4th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Union Cabinet chaired has approved continuation of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima
Yojanaand Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme till which of the following years?
A. 2026-27
B. 2030-31
C. 2028-29
D. 2025-26
Answer: D. 2025-26
Q) As per recent information, which of the following dates has been designated to commemorate and observe‘Lokpal
Day’on an annual basis?
A. 16th January
B. 1st February
C. 31st March
D. 27th January
Answer: A. 16th January
Q) Recently, the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports announced the National Sports Awards 2024. Which of the following
individuals has not been named as a recipient of the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award 2024?
A. Manu Bhaker
B. Harmanpreet Singh
C. Parattu Raveendran Sreejesh
D. Praveen Kumar
Answer: C. Parattu Raveendran Sreejesh
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Union Cabinet has approved the proposal of the Department of Fertilizersfor extension of One-time Special
Package for which of the following fertilizers beyond the Nutrient Based Subsidy(N BS) @ Rs 3,500 per M T for the
period from 01.01.2025 till further orders to ensure its sustainable availability at affordable prices to the farmers?
A. Muriate of Potash(M OP)
B. Urea
C. Di-Ammonium Phosphate(D AP)
D. Organic Fertilizers
Answer: C. Di-Ammonium Phosphate(D AP)
Q) Recently, Union Minister of Jal Shakti has released Dynamic Ground Water Resource Assessment Reportforthe
entire country for 2024. As per the assessment, the total annual groundwater recharge in the country has been assessed as
____________.
A. 384.90 Billion Cubic Meter(B CM)
B. 446.90 Billion Cubic Meter(B CM)
C. 512.90 Billion Cubic Meter(B CM)
D. 672.90 Billion Cubic Meter(B CM)
Answer: B. 446.90 Billion Cubic Meter(B CM)
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) As per the recently released report by Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem
Services(I PB ES) titled‘Transformative Change Assessment’,Immediate action could generate U SD 10 trillion in
business opportunities and support ______________ jobs globally by 2030, especially in industries that depend heavily
on nature.
A. 234 million
B. 395 million
C. 425 million
D. 495 million
Answer: B. 395 million
Q) Recently, the Ministry of Defence(Mo D) has decided to observe which of the following years as the‘Yearof
Reforms’to transform the Armed Forces into a technologically-advancedcombat-ready force?
A. 2028
B. 2025
C. 2026
D. 2027
Answer: B. 2025
Q) Recently, who among the following has assumed charge as the Chief Executive Officer(C EO) of Unique
Identification Authority of India(U ID AI)?
A. Arunish Chawla
B. Amit Agrawal
C. Bhuvnesh Kumar
D. Manish Singhal
Answer: C. Bhuvnesh Kumar
Q) Recently, India and the other Quad member nations expressed commitment to work towards a free, open and peaceful
Indo-Pacific amid China’s assertive behaviour in the region. This pledge was made by the Quad Foreign Ministers in a
joint statement, marking the ______________ anniversary of'Quad cooperation'.
A. 20th
B. 22nd
C. 24th
D. 26th
Answer: A. 20th
Q) Recently,Gujarat governmenthas approved the creationof a new district named _____________ by dividing the
existing Banaskantha district in North Gujarat.
A. Vadgam
B. Amirgadh
C. Vav-Tharad
D. Dantiwada
Answer: C. Vav-Tharad
●
Banaskantha district currently has 14 talukas. Ofthese,eighttalukas,i.e.Vav,Bhabhar,Tharad,Dhanera,
Suigam,Lakhni,Diodarand Kankrej,willbeapartofthenew Vav-Tharaddistrict.Thenewdistrictwillalso
havefour municipalities– Bhabhar, Tharad, Tharaand Dhanera.
●
Thenew Banaskanthadistrictwillhavesixtalukas,i.e.Palanpur,Danta,Amirgadh,Dantiwada,Vadgamand
Deesa, and two municipalities, Palanpur and Deesa.
Q) Recently, which of the following states has announced the‘Sanskriti Utsava’to celebrate its foundationday and
promote talent in various art forms?
A. Jharkhand
B. Uttar Pradesh
C. Tamil Nadu
D. Himachal Pradesh
Answer: B. Uttar Pradesh
Q) Recently,Karnataka governmenthas drawn up plansto develop which of the following forts at a cost of ₹100 crore?
A. Yadgir fort
B. Kittur Fort
C. Bidar Fort
D. Raichur Fort
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: A. Yadgir fort
Q) Recently, Uttarakhand Forest department has developed an ethnobotanical garden “Mahabharata Vatika”atwhich of
the following locations to showcase ecological and environmental knowledge in Mahabharata and grown 37 plant species
mentioned in the epic?
A. Chakrata, Dehradun
B. Dwarahat, Almora
C. Haldwani, Nainital
D. Jakholi, Rudraprayag
Answer: C. Haldwani, Nainital
●
“Mahabharata Vatika”has plant speciesmentioned in18 sections of Mahabharata.
●
Theplantsinclude Khair(Acaciacatechu),Kovidar(Bauhiniavariegata),Bargad(Ficusbenghalensis),Peepal
(Ficus religiosa), Dhak(Butea monosperma), Harsringar(Nyctanthes arbor-tristis), Baheda(Terminalia
bellirica),Aam(Mangifera indica),Kala Sirs(Albizialebbeck).
Q) Recently, which of the following airlines has introduced Wi-Fi internet connectivity services on both domestic and
international flights, making it the first to offerin-flight Wi-Fi on flightswithin India?
A. Air India
B. Star Air
C. Indi Go
D. Akasa Air
Answer: A. Air India
Q) Recently, which of the following states has launched an Android-based mobile application to ensure easy access to
healthcare services and allow individuals to check their eligibility for the Ayushman Bharat Mukh Mantri Sehat Bima
Yojana?
A. Himachal Pradesh
B. Haryana
C. Jharkhand
D. Punjab
Answer: D. Punjab
Q) Recently, who among the following has assumed command of the Indian Air Force’s Western Air Command(New
Delhi)?
A. Air Marshal Pankaj Mohan Sinha
B. Air Marshal Jeetendra Mishra
C. Air Marshal Surat Singh
D. Air Marshal Balakrishnan Manikantan
Answer: B. Air Marshal Jeetendra Mishra
Q) As per recent information, Magnus Carlsen has shared the2024 World Blitz Chess Championship titlewithwhich of
the following players?
A. Ding Liren
B. Fabiano Caruana
C. Ian Nepomniachtchi
D. Boris Gelfand
Answer: C. Ian Nepomniachtchi
Q) Recently, Cabinet has approved the signing of Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) on trade of 1 million metric
tonnes ofnon-basmati white riceannually based onproduction and international prices between the Ministry of
Cooperation of India and the Ministry of Trade of which of the following countries?
A. Bhutan
B. Iran
C. Malaysia
D. Indonesia
Answer: D. Indonesia
5
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
5th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently,Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madrashas announced a collaboration with the
Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare on a project which aims to enhance the efficiency and
effectiveness of the agricultural extension system through digitalisation. What is the name of this project?
A. Project V IK AS
B. Project V IS TA AR
C. Project V IS HA L
D. Project V YA AP AK
Answer: B. Project V IS TA AR
Q) Recently,Reserve Bank of India(R BI)has laid down certain broad principles for lenders relating to their participation
in Government Debt Relief Scheme(D RS). In respect of relief measures, any dues pending receipt from Government, for
more than ______________ will attract specific provision of 100 per cent.
A. 25 days
B. 90 days
C. 60 days
D. 45 days
Answer: B. 90 days
Q) According to the recent Annual Report 2023-24of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
(I RD AI), claims ratio(the net incurred claims to net earned premium) of non-life insurance industry declined to how
much percent for the Financial Year 2023-24(F Y24)?
A. 82.52%
B. 90.12%
C. 64.48%
D. 75.36%
Answer: A. 82.52%
Q) Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has inaugurated the1,675 newly constructed flatsfor the dwellers of Jhuggi
Jhopri(J J) clusters under the In-Situ Slum Rehabilitation Project by the ___________.
A. N BC C(India) Limited
B. Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited(H UD CO)
C. Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd.(D SI ID C)
D. Delhi Development Authority(D DA)
Answer: D. Delhi Development Authority(D DA)
Q) Recently, the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances(D AR PG), Ministry of Personnel, Public
Grievances & Pensions has issued the scheme guidelines for the28th National Awards for e-Governance(N Ae G) 2025.
The N Ae G Awards, 2025 will consist an incentive of ______________ for Gold Awardees.
A. Rs 5 lakh
B. Rs 15 lakh
C. Rs 10 lakh
D. Rs 20 lakh
Answer: C. Rs 10 lakh
●
Trophy,Certificateandanincentiveof Rs10lakhfor Gold Awardeesand Rs5 Lakhsfor Silver Awardeesto
beawardedtothedistrict/organizationforbeingutilizedforimplementationofproject/programmeorbridging
resourcesgaps in any area of public welfare.
●
This year16 Awardsare being conferred underthe N Ae G 2025.
●
Of these10 will be Gold Awards and 6 will be silver Awards.
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Ministry of Commerce and Industry has announced the constitution of an 18-member working group to
revise the base year for the Wholesale Price Index(W PI)from the existing 2011-12 to 2022-23. The group will be chaired
by who among the following?
A. Dr. Rajiv Kumar
B. Prof. Ramesh Chand
C. T. Rabi Sankar
D. Dr. Ravindra H. Dholakia
Answer: B. Prof. Ramesh Chand
Q) According to the recent report published by aviation analytics company Cirium, which of the following airlines was
themostpunctual global airline in 2024?
A. Aeromexico
B. Delta Air Lines
C. Qatar Airways
D. Latam Airlines
Answer: A. Aeromexico
Q) Recently, researchers at which of the following institutes have developed an affordable device to diagnose and manage
tinnitus, a condition often described as a persistent ringing or buzzing in the ears?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Delhi
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madras
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Roorkee
Answer: B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
Q) According to the recently released4th Biennial Update Report(B UR-4)to the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change(U NF CC C), in 2020, India’s total G HG emissions decreased by how much per cent with respect to
2019?
A. 5.32%
B. 9.54%
C. 8.16%
D. 7.93%
Answer: D. 7.93%
Q) As per recent information, what is the name of the specialized Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises(M SM E)
programme launched by Y ES Bank in partnership with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
(F IC CI) Ladies Organisation(F LO) toempower women entrepreneurs?
A. Y ES Women Rise
B. Y ES Powher Up
C. Y ES She Grow
D. Y ES Women Forward
Answer: B. Y ES Powher Up
Q) Recently, the Securities and Exchange Board of India(S EB I) has launched a new initiative, named“Pa RR VA”to
combat misleading claims about investment returns. What does the letter 'V' represent in the acronym 'Pa RR VA'?
A. Validation
B. Verification
C. Value
D. Vigilance
Answer: B. Verification
Q) Recently,Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited(A PS EZ)has placed an order for eight harbour tugs, to be
constructed by which of the following companies in a deal worth Rs 450 crore?
A. Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Limited
B. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
C. Cochin Shipyard Limited
D. Hindustan Shipyard Limited
Answer: C. Cochin Shipyard Limited
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) According to recent information, who among the following will be conferred with the Gangadhar National Award for
Poetry 2023?
A. Kumud Sharma
B. Suman Kumari
C. Kumar Vishwas
D. Prativa Satpathy
Answer: D. Prativa Satpathy
●
About Gangadhar National Award for Poetry:
○
Gangadhar National Award For Poetryisaliteraryawardgiveninthefieldofliteratureforpoetry
by Sambalpur University.
○
It is named after Gangadhar Meher.
○
First award was given to Ali Sardar Jafri in the year 1991.
○
31 poets have been awarded on various Indian languages until now.
○
Theaward was first given in 1991 but the procedureof giving the award was started in1989.
○
The award carries a citation, shawl and cash prize of Rs 1,00,000.
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as the Director of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute
(I AR I), New Delhi?
A. Dr. Dheer Singh
B. Dr. Cherukumalli Srinivas Rao
C. Dr. Ravishankar C.N.
D. Dr. Avdhesh Kumar
Answer: B. Dr. Cherukumalli Srinivas Rao
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with the National
Stock Exchange of India Limited(N SE)to Empower its Delivery Partners with Financial Literacy Programs?
A. Zomato
B. Swiggy
C. Dunzo
D. Eat Sure
Answer: B. Swiggy
Q) Recently,Defence Research and Development Organisation(D RD O)has celebrated its ___________ Foundation Day
on January 2, 2025.
A. 67th
B. 65th
C. 70th
D. 75th
Answer: A. 67th
Q) Recently, who among the following has won the inaugural King Cup International Badminton Open 2024 title?
A. Lin Dan
B. Hu Zhe’an
C. Lakshya Sen
D. Anders Antonsen
Answer: D. Anders Antonsen
Q) Recently, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade(D PI IT), under the Ministry of Commerce &
Industryhas entered into a partnership with _____________, which aims to empower startups, innovators and
entrepreneurs to drive economic growth.
A. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry(F IC CI)
B. National Small Industries Corporation(N SI C)
C. Confederation of Indian Industry(C II)
D. Startup Policy Forum(S PF)
Answer: D. Startup Policy Forum(S PF)
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
6th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, which of the following space agencies has unveiled the design of "Mars Chopper",
which will play vital role in collecting important information and supporting Mars exploration?
A. National Aeronautics and Space Administration(N AS A)
B. R OS CO SM OS
C. European Space Agency(E SA)
D. China National Space Administration(C NS A)
Answer: A. National Aeronautics and Space Administration(N AS A)
Q) Recently, Ministry of Education(Mo E) has launched first phase of ‘One Nation, One Subscription(O NO S)’.The
scheme was approved with a budget of Rs 6,000 crore allocated for its implementation over ___________.
A. 2 years
B. 5 years
C. 3 years
D. 8 years
Answer: C. 3 years
Q) Recently, Department of Economic Affairs(D EA), Ministry of Finance(Mo F) has kept theinterest rate on Small
Savings Schemes(S SS)unchanged for its 4th Quarter of Financial Year 2024-25(Q4 F Y25) i.e. from 1st January 2025 to
31st March 2025 from those notified for Q3 FY25. Interest rate for Senior Citizen Savings Scheme(S CS S) has been
retained at _____________.
A. 6.2%
B. 7.1%
C. 8.2%
D. 5.6%
Answer: C. 8.2%
●
According to the latest notification, the interest rates for popular small savings schemes like the Public
Provident Fund(P PF)andpost office savings depositshave beenretained at 7.1%and4%, respectively.
●
The Kisan Vikas Patra(K VP)continuestoofferaninterestrateof7.5%,withinvestmentsmaturingin115
months. Similarly, the Post Office Monthly Income Scheme(P O-M IS), which provides regular monthly
income to investors, offers an interest rate of7.4%.
●
The Senior Citizen Savings Scheme(S CS S)maintainsitsattractiveinterestrateof8.2%,cateringspecifically
to senior citizens by offering higher returns to ensure financial security.
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
●
For the January-March 2025 quarter,the National Savings Certificate(N SC),afixed-incomeinvestment
option, will continue to earn an interest rateof7.7%.Asinthecurrentquarter,the Post Office Monthly
Income Schemeremains at7.4%,providing a safe investment option with moderate returns.
●
Deposits made under the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana(S SY), which aims to support the education and
marriage expenses of girls,will retain aninterest rate of 8.2%.
○
Thethree-yeartermdepositratealsoremainssteadyat7.1%,consistentwiththeprevailingratesthis
quarter. The S SY scheme is a key initiative under the government’s ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’
campaign.
●
Additionally, the five-year Recurring Deposit(R D)scheme,whichallowsinvestorstomakefixedmonthly
contributions,offersaninterestrateof6.7%.Thesesmallsavingsschemesprovideguaranteedreturns,with
interest compounded monthly, quarterly, or annually, depending on the scheme.
Q) Recently, researchers from which of the following institutes and Bose Institute, Kolkata, has developed an advanced
injectable hydrogelfor localised cancer treatment?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Guwahati
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Bombay
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Madras
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Delhi
Answer: A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Guwahati
Q) As per recent Ministry of Education's Unified District Information System for Education Plus(U DI SE+) data, school
enrolment across India witnessed a decline of 37 lakh students in the academic year 2023-24 compared to the previous
year. As per the information, total number of enrolled students dropped to ____________ in 2023-24.
A. 25.70 crore
B. 24.80 crore
C. 24.25 crore
D. 25.17 crore
Answer: B. 24.80 crore
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has launched “Atlas of Indian Wolf Habitats” to protect
biodiversity and conserve the Indian Wolf?
A. West Bengal
B. Maharashtra
C. Kerala
D. Gujarat
Answer: D. Gujarat
●
Theatlaswasjointlypreparedbythe Forest Departmentof Gujaratincollaborationwith Gujarat Ecological
Education and Research Foundation(G EE R Foundation, Gandhinagar).
●
The Atlas provides detailed information on wolf habitats, including maps highlighting wolf presence and
habitat distribution across 13 districts of the state.
●
Accordingtothedatafromthe2023 Wolf Census,atotalof222wolveswererecordedinanareaof2,217
square kilometers(sq km).
Q) Recently, in a first, which of the following states has introduced an innovative plan that connects the ecosystem
services of its forests with the Green Gross Domestic Product(Green G DP)?
A. Bihar
B. Chhattisgarh
C. Jharkhand
D. Uttarakhand
Answer: B. Chhattisgarh
Q) According to recent study published in an indexed medical journal ‘Nature Aging’, India has ranked at which of the
following position among 143 countries worldwide in terms of its readiness to tackle the challenges posed by an aging
population?
A. 115th
B. 120th
C. 123rd
D. 131st
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. 123rd
●
Switzerlandhassecured1stpositionwiththehighestscoreof82.3,followedby Norwayand Denmarkranked
at2ndand3rdposition, respectively.
●
Currently,Indiaistheyoungestcountryintheworld,withmorethan50%ofitspopulationbelowtheageof
25andmorethan65%belowtheageof35.But,thisscenariowillchangeinthenextfewdecadesand Indians
will have the largest population of senior citizens.
●
Incontrastto India’srankitsneighbouringcountriesrankedbetterlike:Bangladesh(86th),Sri Lanka(94th),
Nepal(102nd), and Pakistan(118th).
●
Thestudywasconductedbyresearchersfromthe National Universityof Singapore(N US),Singaporeand
New York(the United Statesof America,U SA)-based Columbia University,whodevelopedanewmeasure
“Global Aging Index”.
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as new Director-General of Directorate General of Civil
Aviation(D GC A)?
A. Faiz Ahmed Kidwai
B. Akash Tripathi
C. Vikram Singh Mehta
D. Amitav Chatterjee
Answer: A. Faiz Ahmed Kidwai
Q) Recently,National Payments Corporation of India(N PC I)has announced an extension of the deadline for
implementing a ___________ market share cap for Unified Payments Interface(U PI) providers by another two years to
December 31, 2026.
A. 40%
B. 25%
C. 30%
D. 50%
Answer: C. 30%
Q) Recently, Prime Minister of India has inaugurated Grameen Bharat Mahotsav 2025at Bharat Mandapam, New Delhi.
This event is organised by which of the following organisation/institute?
A. Indian Council of Agricultural Research(I CA R)
B. National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development(N AB AR D)
C. Khadi and Village Industries Commission(K VI C)
D. National Institute of Rural Development(N IR D)
Answer: B. National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development(N AB AR D)
●
Celebrating Rural India'sentrepreneurialspiritandculturalheritage,the Grameen Bharat Mahotsav2025willbe
heldfrom4thto9th Januarywiththetheme'Buildinga Resilient Rural Indiafora Viksit Bharat2047’and
motto “गांव बढ़े, तो देश बढ़े”.
●
The Grameen Bharat Mahotsavhasbeenorganisedby Departmentof Financial Services,Union Ministryof
Finance, and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development(N AB AR D).
●
Its objectives include promotingeconomicstabilityandfinancialsecurityamongruralpopulations,witha
special focus on North-East India, by addressing financial inclusion and supporting sustainable agricultural
practices.
Q) Recently, chief minister of which of the following states has announced ‘Rythu Bharosa’ and ‘Indiramma Atmiya
Bharosa’ initiatives to improve farmers' financial conditions and address the issue of food security?
A. Kerala
B. Karnataka
C. Telangana
D. Andhra Pradesh
Answer: C. Telangana
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade(D PI IT)has partnered with which of the following
companies to catalyze the growth of Indian startups and widen their global footprint?
A. Sequoia Capital
B. Chiratae Ventures
C. Stride Ventures
D. Tiger Global Management
Answer: C. Stride Ventures
Q) Recently,Territorial Armyhas established a new task force dedicated to the rejuvenation and protection of which of
the following rivers?
A. Gomti
B. Narmada
C. Kaveri
D. Beas
Answer: A. Gomti
Q) Recently, Competition Commission of India(C CI) has approved three organisations to jointly buy stake in Fourth
Partner Energy Limited(F PE L),India’s leading renewable energy company focusing on building and financing
renewable energy projects. Which of the following organisation is not one among them?
A. Asian Development Bank(A DB)
B. International Finance Corporation(I FC)
C. D EG - Deutsche Investitions - und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mb H(D EG) D. New Development Bank(N DB)
Answer: D. New Development Bank(N DB)
Q) Recently, who among the following has released his autobiography titled “Stumped: Life Behind and Beyond the
Twenty-Two Yards”?
A. Mohinder Amarnath
B. Syed Mujtaba Hussein Kirmani
C. Roger Binny
D. Madan Lal
Answer: B. Syed Mujtaba Hussein Kirmani
Q) Recently, which of the following states has celebrated the annual Kagyed Dance festival, a unique Buddhist festival?
A. Nagaland
B. Assam
C. Sikkim
D. Manipur
Answer: C. Sikkim
Q) Recently,Mount Kanlaon, a 2,435-meter active volcano has erupted. This volcano is associated with which of the
following countries?
A. Japan
B. Vietnam
C. Italy
D. Philippines
Answer: D. Philippines
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
7th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, the Department of Financial Services has launchedrevamped e-auction portalwhich
consolidates information on e-auction properties from all P SBs(Public Sector Banks) and offers a
one-stop destination for buyers and investors to discover a wide range of assets. What is the name of this portal?
A. Baankinfo
B. Infoweb
C. Bankweb
D. Baanknet
Answer: D. Baanknet
Q) In December 2024, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation(E PF O)completed the full-scale rolloutof “C PP S”
under the Employees’ Pension Scheme, 1995. In the acronym “C PP S,” what does the second “P” stand for?
A. Pension
B. Provident
C. Payments
D. Plan
Answer: C. Payments
●
About Centralized Pension Payments System(C PP S):
○
The CP PSisaparadigmshiftfromtheexistingpensiondisbursementsystemthatisdecentralized,
with each Zonal/Regional Office of E PF O maintainingseparate agreements with only3-4 banks.
○
In CP PS,notonlythepensionerwillbeabletotakepensionfromanybank,butalso,therewillbeno
needforpensionerstovisitthebankforanyverificationatthetimeofcommencementofpensionand
the pension shall be immediately credited upon release.
○
The CP PSsystemfrom January2025onwardswouldalsoensuredisbursementofpensionthroughout
Indiawithoutanyneedfortransferof Pension Payment Orders(P PO)fromoneofficetoanother
even when the Pensioner moves from one location toanother or changes his bank or branch.
Q) Recently, Union Minister of Commerce & Industry has released the“Logistics Ease Across Different States(L EA DS)
2024”report. As per the report, which of the followingstates has not been awarded as the top rank of achievers amongst
Coastal Group?
A. Gujarat
B. Karnataka
C. Maharashtra
D. Kerala
Answer: D. Kerala
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) According to the recently released“O Womaniya!2024 report”, ___________ of positions are held bywomen among
the 144 directors and C XO(chief experience officer) roles analyzed across 25 leading media and entertainment firms in
India.
A. 6 percent
B. 9 percent
C. 12 percent
D. 16 percent
Answer: C. 12 percent
Q) Recently, researchers at which of the following institutes have identified bacteria capable ofconsuming toxic
pollutants in the soiland producing essential nutrientsas byproducts which can be used to tackle soil pollution?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madras
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Delhi
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Kanpur
Answer: B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
Q) Recently, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare has inaugurated the new campus of the School of Advanced
Studies,Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana(S-V YA SA), Deemed to be University at which of the
following locations?
A. Pune, Maharashtra
B. Bengaluru, Karnataka
C. Patna, Bihar
D. Karnal, Haryana
Answer: B. Bengaluru, Karnataka
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as the Secretary General of the Indian Ocean Rim Association
(I OR A)Secretariat in Ebene, Mauritius?
A. Jayen Mehta
B. Dr. Sandip Shah
C. Kshitij Mohan
D. Sanjiv Ranjan
Answer: D. Sanjiv Ranjan
●
About Indian Ocean Rim Association(I OR A):
○
The Indian Ocean Rim Association(I OR A),formerlyknownasthe Indian Ocean Rim Initiative(I OR I)
and the Indian Ocean Rim Association for Regional Cooperation(I OR-A RC), is an international
organisation consisting of23 states bordering the Indian Ocean
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
○
Founded in 1997, I OR A is an inter-governmental organization dedicated to promoting regional
economic cooperation across the Indian Ocean.
○
I OR A comprises23 member states.
■
India,Australia,Bangladesh,Comoros,France,Indonesia,Iran,Kenya,Madagascar,Malaysia,
the Maldives,Mauritius,Mozambique,Oman,Seychelles,Singapore,Somalia,South Africa,Sri
Lanka, Tanzania, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen.
○
It includes 12 dialogue partners: China,Egypt,the European Union,Germany,Italy,Japan,Russia,
Saudi Arabia, Turkey, South Korea, the U K, and the U SA.
○
In2015,I OR Awasgrantedobserverstatusatboththe United Nation General Assembly(U NG A)and
the African Union.
○
Headquarters –Ebene, Mauritius
○
Chair– Sri Lanka
○
Vice-Chair– India
○
Note:Indiawill take over the chairmanship from Sri Lanka for the2025-2027term
Q) According to the“Unicorn workforce trend report”by Private Circle Research, the number of workersin India’s
unicorn startups reduced by 6,732 between August 2023 - August 2024, partly due to layoffs. Which of the following
startup hubs witnessed the maximum increase in the number of employees during this period?
A. Pune
B. Bengaluru
C. Delhi-N CR
D. Chennai
Answer: C. Delhi-N CR
Q) The government has recently amended the Foreign Trade Policy 2023to encourage stakeholder consultationand
promote inclusive decision-making. The key approach to the Foreign Trade Policy 2023 is based on four pillars. Which of
the following is N OT one of them?
A. Incentive to Remission
B. Export promotion through collaboration - Exporters, States, Districts, Indian Missions
C. Ease of doing business, reduction in transaction cost and e-initiatives
D. Promoting sustainable development through environmental trade regulations
Answer: D. Promoting sustainable development through environmental trade regulations
●
Foreign Trade Policy(F TP) 2023came into effect from April 1, 2023.
●
Nodal ministry - Ministry of Commerce & Industry
●
F TP2023isapolicydocumentwhichisbasedoncontinuityoftime-testedschemesfacilitatingexportsas
well as a document which is nimbleand responsiveto the requirements of trade.
Q) Recently,Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation(M BM C)has collaborated with Women Entrepreneurship Platform
(W EP) of N IT I Aayog and launched an initiative aimed at empowering women entrepreneurs in the city of Mira
Bhayandar, Maharashtra. What is the name of this initiative?
A. Faral Sakhi
B. Saksham Sakhi
C. Sakhi Uthhaan
D. Sakhi Pehal
Answer: A. Faral Sakhi
Q) Recently, students from which of the following schools have been honoured by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration’s(N AS A)’s International Astronomical Search Collaboration(I AS C)for their discovery ofa Main-Belt
Asteroid(M BA) T D40 found using data from pan-S TA RR S telescope?
A. R.N Podar School, Mumbai
B. Dyal Singh Public School, Karnal
C. Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, Mylapore
D. Little Rock Indian School, Udupi
Answer: B. Dyal Singh Public School, Karnal
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Railway Ministry has proposed to set up a new railway division under the Northern Railway Zoneby
reorganizing the Firozpur division. The headquarters of the proposed railway division will be based at which of the
following locations?
A. Leh
B. Srinagar
C. Jammu
D. Pathankot
Answer: C. Jammu
Q) Recently, which of the following institutes has successfully conducted the first trial blast for the Dozer Push Mining
Method, integrating advanced digital technologies,for the first time in India?
A. Indian School of Mines(I SM)
B. The Energy and Resources Institute(T ER I)
C. Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research(C IM FR)
D. Institute of Minerals and Materials Technology
Answer: C. Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research(C IM FR)
Q) Recently, which of the following state governments has conducted thecountry’s first-ever censusof coastal and wader
birds?
A. Gujarat
B. Andhra Pradesh
C. Odisha
D. Tamil Nadu
Answer: A. Gujarat
Q) Recently, New Delhi based National Research Development Corporation(N RD C)has celebrated its ___________
Foundation Day.
A. 65th
B. 50th
C. 75th
D. 71st
Answer: D. 71st
Q) Recently,National Institute of Electronics & Information Technology(N IE LI T)Deemed to be University has been
jointly inaugurated at how many locations across India?
A. 15
B. 12
C. 18
D. 10
Answer: B. 12
Q) Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to Rani Velu Nachiyaron her birth anniversary(3rd January).
Rani Velu Nachiyar is known by Tamils as ___________.
A. Veerangna
B. Shakti Rani
C. Veeramangai
D. Rajalakshmi
Answer: C. Veeramangai
Q) Dr.Kattungal Subrahmanyan Manilal, a Padma Shri awardee, recently passed away in Thrissur, Kerala. He was
associated with which of the following fields?
A. Music
B. Astronomy
C. Physics
D. Botany
Answer: D. Botany
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
8th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Union Minister of Steel and Heavy Industries has launched the second round of
Production Linked Incentive(P LI) scheme for Specialty Steel, termed as PL I Scheme 1.1. P LI
scheme 1.1 will be implemented during the production period of F Y 2025-26 to F Y _____________.
A. 2030-31
B. 2029-30
C. 2028-29
D. 2031-32
Answer: B. 2029-30
Q) As per recent information, Lok Sabha Speaker is set to inaugurate'Panchayat Se Parliament 2.0'. It is organised by
National Commission for Women(N CW), in collaboration with the Parliamentary Research and Training Institute for
Democracies(P RI DE), Lok Sabha Secretariat, and which of the following ministries?
A. Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment
B. Ministry of Panchayati Raj
C. Ministry of Women and Child Development
D. Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Answer: D. Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Q) According to the recent State Bank of India(S BI) Research, poverty declined faster in rural areas during F Y24 as the
poverty ratio dipped below 5 per cent for the first time to ___________ from 7.2 per cent in F Y23.
A. 3.84 per cent
B. 4.12 per cent
C. 4.86 per cent
D. 3.24 per cent
Answer: C. 4.86 per cent
Q) Recently, a report titled‘400 Million Dreams’was released, which highlights the changing patterns of migration in
India since 2011 Census. As per the report, domestic migrant numbers have reduced from 45.57 crore to _____________
in 2023.
A. 40.20 crore
B. 42.81 crore
C. 41.37 crore
D. 38.53 crore
Answer: A. 40.20 crore
Q) Recently,Indian Coast Guard(I CG)and which of the following institutes have signed a Memorandum of
Understanding(Mo U) to boost the medical training and capabilities of Coast Guard medical officers?
A. National Institute of Homoeopathy, Kolkata
B. All-India Institute of Medical Sciences(A II MS), Delhi
C. Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi
D. Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical
Education & Research, Puducherry
Answer: B.All-India Institute of Medical Sciences(A II MS), Delhi
Q) Recently, Prime Minister of India has laid the foundation stone for the new state-of-the-art building for the Central
Ayurveda Research Institute(C AR I)at which of the following locations in Delhi, which will be constructed at the costof
around Rs 185 crore?
A. Dwarka
B. Rohini
C. Mundka
D. Saket
Answer: B. Rohini
Q) As per recent information, ___________ has developed the technology to produce ‘Paracetamol’ indigenously.
A. National Institute of Immunology(N II)
B. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research(C SI R)
C. Institute of Nano Science and Technology(I NS T)
D. Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences
and Technology(S CT IM ST)
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: B. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research(C SI R)
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as the Chairman and Managing Director of the Food
Corporation of India(F CI)?
A. Manish Singhal
B. Faiz Ahmed Kidwai
C. Ashutosh Agnihotri
D. Bhuvnesh Kumar
Answer: C. Ashutosh Agnihotri
Q) Recently, United States’ President Joe Biden named nineteen recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Who
among the following is not one of the recipients of the Medal?
A. Sundar Pichai
B. José Andrés
C. Hillary Rodham Clinton
D. Tim Gill
Answer: A. Sundar Pichai
●
The following individuals were awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom:
○
José Andrés
○
Bono
○
Ashton Baldwin Carter(posthumous)
○
Hillary Rodham Clinton
○
Michael J. Fox
○
Tim Gill
○
Jane Goodall
○
Fannie Lou Hamer(posthumous)
○
Earvin “Magic” Johnson
○
Robert Francis Kennedy(posthumous)
○
Ralph Lauren
○
Lionel Messi
○
William Sanford Nye
○
George W. Romney(posthumous)
○
David M. Rubenstein
○
George Soros
○
George Stevens, Jr.
○
Denzel Washington
○
Anna Wintour
Q) Recently, which of the following organisations has designated 2025 as the"Year of Artificial Intelligence"to position
India as a global leader in A I?
A. N IT I Aayog
B. Centre for Development of Advanced Computing(C-D AC)
C. All India Council for Technical Education(A IC TE)
D. Digital India Corporation
Answer: C. All India Council for Technical Education(A IC TE)
Q) As per the recent information, on January 1, 2025, India celebrated the birth of its first Generation Betababy, Frankie
Remruatdika Zadeng. Generation Beta is a term denoting children born between _____________.
A. 2025 and 2030
B. 2025 and 2039
C. 2025 and 2035
D. 2025 and 2045
Answer: B. 2025 and 2039
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) As per recent information, scientists are deploying two telescopes which are part of the Cubic Kilometre Neutrino
Telescope or K M3 Ne Tto detect high-energy neutrinos, also known as ghost particles, at which of the following
locations?
A. Caspian Sea
B. South China Sea
C. Mediterranean Sea
D. Black Sea
Answer: C. Mediterranean Sea
●
Key components
○
A RC A(Astroparticle Research with Cosmics in the Abyss): It will help scientists in searching
neutrinosfromdistantastrophysicalsourcessuchassupernovae,gammarayburstersorcolliding
stars.It is locatedoffshore Sicily, Italy.
○
O RC A(Oscillation Research with Cosmics in the Abyss): This telescope is the instrument for
K M3 Ne T scientists studying neutrino properties exploiting neutrinos generated in the Earth's
atmosphere.It is locatedoffshore of Toulon,France.
Q) Recently, which of the following ministries has introduced two special category visas namely‘e-student visa’ and
‘e-student-x’ visafor international students intending to pursue higher education in the country?
A. Ministry of Education
B. Ministry of External Affairs
C. Ministry of Home Affairs
D. Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship
Answer: C. Ministry of Home Affairs
Q) Which of the following are the gazelle mascots unveiled recently by the Kho Kho Federation of India(K KF I)for the
inaugural Kho Kho World Cup 2025?
A. Tejas and Tara
B. Arjun and Anaya
C. Veer and Vani
D. Surya and Sita
Answer: A. Tejas and Tara
●
Theeventwillhavetwotrophies–abluetrophyforthemen'schampionshipandagreentrophyforthe
women's event.
○
The blue trophy symbolizes trust, determination, and universal appeal, while the green trophy
representsgrowth and vitality.
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
●
Kho Kho World Cup: Mascots
○
The Federation also introduced ‘Tejas’and ‘Tara,’ gazelle mascots for the
tournament.
○
Representing speed, agility, and teamwork, the mascots are dressed inblue and
orange sportingattirewith traditional Indian motifs, reflecting the sport's
heritage.
●
Kho Kho World Cup:Broadcasting Partners
○
The K KF I haspartnered with several organizationsto support the tournament.
■
Ease My Tripwill managetravel logistics for participants.
■
Star Sports Networkand Doordarshanwillhandle T V broadcasts, with Disney+ Hotstaras
the OT T partner.
■
G MR Sportsis the Silver Sponsor, and District by Zomatowill manage ticketing services.
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has signed U SD 200 million‘green loan agreement’with Japan based
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation(S MB C)?
A. N HP C Limited
B. N TP C Limited
C. R EC Limited
D. Power Grid Corporation of India Limited(P OW ER GR ID)
Answer: D. Power Grid Corporation of India Limited(P OW ER GR ID)
Q) Recently, which of the following states has launched a 15-day campaign from January 1 aimed atpromoting reading
cultureamong students?
A. Odisha
B. Maharashtra
C. Haryana
D. Uttar Pradesh
Answer: B. Maharashtra
Q) Recently,World Braille Dayhas been observed on which of the following dates?
A. 2nd January
B. 6th January
C. 4th January
D. 8th January
Answer: C. 4th January
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as Chief Executive Officer(C EO) of National Association of
Software and Service Companies(N AS SC OM) foundation?
A. Suman Singh
B. Harsha Vardhan Agarwal
C. Anurag Goel
D. Jyoti Sharma
Answer: D. Jyoti Sharma
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
9th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) The Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying recently launched India's
first-ever Organic Fisheries Clusterunder the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana(P MM SY) at
which of the following locations?
A. Imphal, Manipur
B. Soreng, Sikkim
C. Guwahati, Assam
D. Shillong, Meghalaya
Answer: B. Soreng, Sikkim
Q) Recently, two Fast Patrol Vessels(F PVs),"Amulya"and "Akshay,"were launched for the Indian Coast Guard(I CG).
These vessels were indigenously designed and built by which of the following companies?
A. Hindustan Shipyard Limited(H SL)
B. Cochin Shipyard Limited(C SL)
C. Goa Shipyard Limited(G SL)
D. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
Answer: C. Goa Shipyard Limited(G SL)
Q) Recently, Union Home Minister and Minister of Cooperation, Amit Shah has launched BH AR AT PO L portalto
facilitate Indian L EAs(Law Enforcement Agencies) enabling real-time information sharing for faster access to
international police assistance. This portal has been developed by which of the following organizations?
A. Intelligence Bureau(I B)
B. Central Bureau of Investigation(C BI)
C. National Investigation Agency(N IA)
D. National Crime Records Bureau(N CR B)
Answer: B. Central Bureau of Investigation(C BI)
Q) Recently, the UJ AL A schemehas marked its 10thanniversary as a groundbreaking initiative in energy efficiency.
U JA LA scheme is implemented by which of the following companies?
A. Bureau of Energy Efficiency(B EE)
B. Central Electricity Authority of India(C EA)
C. R EC Limited
D. Energy Efficiency Services Limited(E ES L)
Answer: D. Energy Efficiency Services Limited(E ES L)
●
U JA LA stands for Unnat Jyoti by Affordable L EDs for All
Q) Which of the following Indian cities is ranked 48th in the recently released“Global Power City Index 2024”,making
it the only Indian city in the rankings?
A. Mumbai
B. Delhi
C. Bengaluru
D. Chennai
Answer: A. Mumbai
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, in a new discovery, astronomers from the ____________ and their collaborators have found anew
ultra-diffuse galaxyforming 430 million light yearsfrom Earth in the constellation Leo.
A. National Aeronautics and Space Administration(N AS A)
B. Indian Institute of Astrophysics(I IA)
C. European Space Agency(E SA)
D. Indian Space Research Organisation(I SR O)
Answer: B. Indian Institute of Astrophysics(I IA)
Q) The Punjab Government has recently informed that, a dedicated portal has been launched under the Prime Minister
Y AS AS VI Schemeto support students from marginalizedcommunities in pursuing higher education. Which of the
following ministries implements the Prime Minister Y AS AS VI Scheme?
A. Ministry of Education
B. Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment
C. Ministry of Finance
D. Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Answer: B. Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment
●
Prime Minister Y AS AS VI Scheme:
○
Launched:2021-22
○
P M-Y AS AS VIstandsfor Prime Minister Young Achievers Scholarship Award Schemefor Vibrant
India.
○
It is a comprehensive umbrella scheme aimed at uplifting students from Other Backward Classes
(O BC), Economically Backward Classes(E BC), and Denotified and Nomadic Tribes(D NT) by
providing them with access to qualityeducation duringtheir formative years.
○
Objective:Theoverarchinggoaloftheschemeistopromoteeducationalempowermentamongthese
vulnerable groups, helping them overcome financial barriers and complete their education.
○
Under this Schemestudentscanavail Pre-Matric Scholarshipfrom Class9to10and Post Matric
Scholarship for theirhigher studies at post-matriculationorpost-secondary stage.
○
Eligibility:
■
The Pre-Matric Scholarshipisdesignedforstudentsinclasses IXand Xattendinggovernment
schools,
■
Family incomebelow Rs. 2.5 lakh.
○
Implementing Agency:Departmentof Social Justiceand Empowerment,Ministryof Social Justice
and Empowerment.
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as additional secretary and mission director,Jal Jeevan
Mission, Department of Drinking Water & Sanitation,Ministry of Jal Shakti?
A. Suman Singh
B. Suresh Chand Meena
C. Kamal Kishore Soan
D. Danish Ashraf
Answer: C. Kamal Kishore Soan
●
Jal Jeevan Mission was launched on15th August 2019.
●
Itenvisagessupplyof55litresofwaterperpersonperdaytoeveryruralhouseholdthrough Functional
Household Tap Connections(F HT C) by2024.
●
It comes under Jal Shakti Ministry.
Q) Recently, which of the following States/Union Territories has launched the Winter Char Dham circuitto promote
year-round tourism and attract visitors to the state during the off-season winter months?
A. Uttarakhand
B. Punjab
C. Himachal Pradesh
D. Jammu & Kashmir
Answer: A. Uttarakhand
Q) Recently, the United States and which of the following countries have signed a protocol to amend the Scienceand
Technology Agreement(S TA)and extend it for fiveyears?
A. Russia
B. South Korea
C. China
D. Japan
Answer: C. China
Q) Recently, Odisha Chief Minister has launched the “Shahid Madho Singh Haath Kharcha Scheme”with anaim to
reduce dropout rate among Scheduled Tribe(S T) students. Under the scheme, Odisha government will provide a one-time
incentive of _____________ to S T students getting enrolled in class I X & class X I.
A. Rs 8000
B. Rs 5000
C. Rs 10000
D. Rs 15000
Answer: B. Rs 5000
Q) Recently, who among the following has won the Golden Globe Award 2024 for Best Actorin a Motion Picture—
Drama for “The Brutalist”?
A. Brady Corbet
B. Alessandro Nivola
C. Adrien Brody
D. Joe Alwyn
Answer: C. Adrien Brody
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) As per recent information, the 15th edition of Asia’s biggest aero show -Aero India 2025- willbe held at which of the
following locations in February 2025?
A. Air Force Station, Leh
B. Air Force Station, Yelahanka
C. Air Force Station, Ambala
D. Air Force Station, Bathinda
Answer: B. Air Force Station, Yelahanka
Q) Recently, the Financial Intelligence Unit-India(F IU-I ND)has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with
which of the following organizations as part of continued coordinated efforts in effective implementation of requirements
of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and Rules framed thereunder?
A. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authorityof India(I RD AI)
B. Securities and Exchange Boardof India(S EB I)
C. Reserve Bank of India(R BI)
D. National Stock Exchange(N SE)
Answer: A. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India(I RD AI)
Q) Recently, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister has announced a prize of ___________ for experts or organizations that succeed
in deciphering the scripts of the Indus Valley Civilisation.
A. $10 million
B. $5 million
C. $3 million
D. $1 million
Answer: D. $1 million
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Bureau of Indian Standards(B IS)has celebrated its ___________ Foundation Day.
A. 76th
B. 78th
C. 80th
D. 81st
Answer: B. 78th
●
Bureau of Indian Standards(B IS):
○
The Bureauof Indian Standards(B IS)isthe National Standards Bodyof Indiaunder Departmentof
Consumer affairs, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Government of
India.
○
Formed on -23 December 1986
○
Theorganisationwasformerlythe Indian Standards Institution(I SI),setupunderthe Resolutionof
the Department of Industriesand Supplies No. 1 Std.(4)/45,dated3 September 1946.
■
The I SI was registered underthe Societies Registration Act, 1860.
○
Anew Bureauof Indianstandards(B IS)Act2016whichwasnotifiedon22 March2016,hasbeen
brought into force with effect from 12 October 2017.
■
The Actestablishesthe Bureauof Indian Standards(B IS)asthe National Standards Bodyof
India.
○
The Ministerinchargeofthe Ministryor Departmenthavingadministrativecontrolofthe BI Sisthe
ex-officio President of the B IS.
○
As a National Standards Body, it has 25 members drawn from Central or State Governments,
industry, scientific and research institutions, and consumer organisations.
○
Headquarters:Delhi
Q) Recently, which of the following states announced an investment of ₹5 crore annually from January 2025 to December
2027 for the Indian National Kho Kho team, markinga significant step forward in promoting indigenous sports in the
country?
A. Tamil Nadu
B. Haryana
C. Odisha
D. Uttar Pradesh
Answer: C. Odisha
Q) As per recent information, Bangladesh is reportedly mulling to purchase the Abdali Short
Range Ballistic Missiles(S RB Ms)also known as the Hatf 2 missiles. Hatf 2 missiles are
developed by which of the following nations?
A. Iraq
B. Pakistan
C. Saudi Arabia
D. Iran
Answer: B. Pakistan
5
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
10th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) As per recently released ‘First Advance Estimatesof Annual Gross Domestic Product(G DP) for
the Financial Year(F Y) 2024-25’, real G DP has beenestimated to grow by ___________ in F Y
2024-25.
A. 6.7%
B. 6.4%
C. 7.1%
D. 7.3%
Answer: B. 6.4%
●
Real GD Phasbeenestimatedtogrowby6.4%in FY2024-25ascomparedtothegrowthrateof8.2%in
Provisional Estimate(P E) of G DP for F Y 2023-24.
●
Nominal G DPhas witnessed a growth rate of9.7%in FY 2024-25 over the growth rate of 9.6% in F Y 2023-24.
●
Real GV Ahasgrownby6.4%in FY2024-25overthegrowthrateof7.2%in FY2023-24.Nominal GV Ahas
shown a growth rate of9.3%in FY 2024-25as comparedto the growth rate of 8.5% in F Y 2023-24.
●
Real GV Aof Agricultureandalliedsectorhasbeenestimatedtogrowby3.8%during2024-25ascomparedto
the growth of1.4%witnessed during the last year,i.e., 2023-24.
●
Real G VA of ‘Construction’ sector and‘Financial,Real Estate&Professional Services’sectorhasbeen
estimated to observe good growth rates of8.6%and7.3%,respectively during the F Y 2024-25.
●
Private Final Consumption Expenditure(P FC E)at Constant Prices,haswitnessedagrowthrateof7.3%
during F Y 2024-25 over the growth rate of4.0%inthe previous Financial Year.
●
Government Final Consumption Expenditure(G FC E)at Constant Prices,hasreboundedtoagrowthrateof
4.1% as compared to the growth rate of2.5% in theprevious Financial Year.
Q) Recently, which of the following organisation has launched Phase 4 of National Educational Alliancefor Technology
(N EA T 4.0)to bridge the gap between students andessential industry skills, prioritizing accessibility and inclusivity for
learners nationwide?
A. National Council for Teacher Education(N CT E)
B. All India Council for Technical Education(A IC TE)
C. Central Board of Secondary Education(C BS E)
D. University Grants Commission(U GC)
Answer: B. All India Council for Technical Education(A IC TE)
Q) Recently, India and which of the following countries have signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) for the
execution of3rd phase of High Impact Community Development Projects(H IC DP)in the country?
A. Madagascar
B. Mauritius
C. Seychelles
D. Maldives
Answer: D. Maldives
Q) Recently, a project has been launched to empower female students of University of Delhi withlaptops.What is the
name of this project?
A. Project Kalpana
B. Project Nirmaan
C. Project Sashakt Beti
D. Project Shodh
Answer: C. Project Sashakt Beti
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as new Chairman of Indian Space Research Organisation
(I SR O)?
A. M. Subramanyam
B. V Narayanan
C. Ajay Kumar Sood
D. Prof. Goverdhan Mehta
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: B. V Narayanan
Q) Recently, induction ceremony of eighth Ammunition Cum Torpedo Cum Missile(A CT CM) Barge,L SA M 22(Yard
132) was held at Naval Dockyard, Mumbai. The contractfor construction and delivery of 11 A CT CM Barges was
concluded with which of the following companies?
A. Titagarh Wagons Limited
B. M/s Suryadipta Projects Pvt Ltd
C. M/s S EC ON Engineering Projects Pvt. Ltd
D. Bharati Defence and Infrastructure Limited
Answer: B. M/s Suryadipta Projects Pvt Ltd
Q) Recently, Union Minister of Food Processing Industries has inaugurated8th Edition of Indusfood 2025atwhich of the
following places?
A. Pune
B. Greater Noida
C. Prayagraj
D. Agra
Answer: B. Greater Noida
Q) Recently, Government of India has chosen Janbhagidarise Jankalyan(public welfare through public participation)as
the central theme for its 2025 calendar, underscoring the ethos of transformative governance. This calendar is designed
and produced by ____________.
A. Press Information Bureau(P IB)
B. Press Council of India
C. Central Bureau of Communication
D. Prasar Bharati
Answer: C. Central Bureau of Communication
Q) As per recent information,e-Shram portalwillnow be available in all 22 Scheduled Languages. This portal was
launched by which of the following ministries?
A. Ministry of Labour & Employment
B. Ministry of Commerce and Industry
C. Ministry of Finance
D. Ministry of Corporate Affairs
Answer: A. Ministry of Labour & Employment
●
The Eighth Schedule to the Constitution consists of thefollowing 22 languages:
○
Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kashmiri, Konkani, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi,
Nepali, Oriya, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Sindhi, Tamil, Telugu, Urdu, Bodo, Santhali, Maithili and Dogri.
Q) Recently, which of the following state Government has launched the first phase of ‘Gunotsav 2025,’a state-wide
assessment to evaluate the performance of 14 lakh students across 16,000 government schools in 11 districts?
A. Tripura
B. Nagaland
C. Assam
D. Manipur
Answer: C. Assam
●
Thethemeof 'Gunotsav 2025, is "Ensuring Quality Education".
Q) As per recent information, which of the following companies will launch its first orbital rocket ‘New Glenn’ from
Launch Complex 36 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station, Florida?
A. Blue Origin
B. Arianespace
C. Space X
D. Skyroot
Answer: A. Blue Origin
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal has announced two major initiatives
aimed at enhancing the capacity of Kandla Port, involving a total investment of ₹57,000 crores. Kandla Port is also
known as ___________.
A. Atal Port
B. Syama Prasad Mukherjee Port
C. Deendayal Port
D. Nanaji Deshmukh Port
Answer: C. Deendayal Port
Q) Recently, who among the following has been elected as the new president of Athletics Federation of India(A FI)?
A. Jyotirmoyee Sikdar
B. Sandeep Mehta
C. Bahadur Singh Sagoo
D. Adille Sumariwalla
Answer: C. Bahadur Singh Sagoo
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has become a full member of BR IC S group?
A. Indonesia
B. Armenia
C. Jordan
D. Kuwait
Answer: A. Indonesia
●
B RI CS
○
B RI CS is an acronym for the grouping of the world’s leadingemergingeconomies,namely Brazil,
Russia, India, China, and South Africa.
○
In 2001, the British Economist Jim O’Neill coined the term B RI C to describe the four emerging
economies of Brazil, Russia, India, and China.
○
The grouping wasformalizedduring thefirst meetingof BR IC Foreign Ministersin2006
○
South Africawasinvitedtojoin BR ICin December2010,afterwhichthegroupadoptedtheacronym
B RI CS.
○
Thefirst BR IC Summitwasheldin Russia’s Yekaterinburgin2009.Itwasagreedtoexpand BR IC
into BR IC Swiththeinclusionof South Africaatthe BR IC Foreign Ministers’meetingin New Yorkin
2010.
○
Duringthe15th BR IC SSummitheldin2023,Argentina,Egypt,Ethiopia,Iran,Saudi Arabiaand
the United Arab Emirates(U AE)were invited to becomemembers of B RI CS.
■
The 5 countries officiallybecame the new full memberof B RI CS blocon1st January 2024.
○
The16th B RI CS Summitwas being heldunder Russia’schairmanship in Kazan in 2024.
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has entered into an Mo U with Railway Energy Management Company
Limited(R EM CL)to support financing of Renewable Energy projects, developed by R EM CL?
A. Rail Vikas Nigam Limited(R VN L)
B. Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency(I RE DA)
C. Ircon International Limited(I RC ON)
D. Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited(I RF C)
Answer: D. Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited(I RF C)
Q) Recently, hundreds of dinosaur footprints, dating back to Middle Jurassic Period(around 166 million years ago) were
discovered, earning the site the nickname "dinosaurhighway". It was discovered in which of the followingcountries?
A. Spain
B. United Kingdom
C. France
D. Germany
Answer: B. United Kingdom
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, which of the following organisation and Kubota Corporationhave partnered to launch an experimental
initiative aimed at reducing greenhouse gas(G HG) emissions in rice cultivation?
A. International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics(I CR IS AT)
B. International Rice Research Institute(I RR I)
C. Food and Agriculture Organization(F AO)
D. International Fund for Agricultural Development(I FA D)
Answer: B. International Rice Research Institute(I RR I)
Q) Recently,Mount Ibuhas erupted. It is associatedwith which of the following countries?
A. Japan
B. Indonesia
C. Italy
D. Philippines
Answer: B. Indonesia
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
11th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, China has unveiled its first-ever domestically developed deep-sea multi-functional
exploration ship, the Tansuo-3 also known as Exploration-3. This ship was constructed by which of
the following companies?
A. Shanghai Waigaoqiao Shipbuilding(S WS)
B. Guangzhou Shipyard International(G SI)
C. C OS CO Shipping Heavy Industry(C HI)
D. Yangzijiang Shipbuilding(Y ZJ)
Answer: B. Guangzhou Shipyard International(G SI)
Q) Recently,Nadi Tarangini, an indigenously developed pulse diagnostic tool, has become India’s first ayurvedic medical
device to receive approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization(C DS CO). Nadi Tarangini is being
manufactured by which of the following companies?
A. Baxter India Private Limited
B. Atreya Innovations Private Limited
C. Alcon Scientific Industries Private Limited
D. Siemens Healthcare Private Limited
Answer: B. Atreya Innovations Private Limited
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has launched the Rural Community Immigration Class(R CI C) initiative,
offering a pathway for foreign nationals, including students, to apply for Permanent Residency(P R) if they agree to live
and work in designated rural communities?
A. Australia
B. Germany
C. Canada
D. Saudi Arabia
Answer: C. Canada
Q) Recently, Indore has launched the“Indore Climate Mission”aiming to educate its 35 lakh residents about the
importance of energy conservation and sustainable habits to become the world’s first energy-literate city. This initiative is
spearheaded by Indore Municipal Corporation(I MC) in collaboration with which of the following organisations?
A. Sauramandala Foundation
B. Life Line Foundation
C. Energy Swaraj Foundation
D. Jan Vikas Foundation
Answer: C. Energy Swaraj Foundation
Q) Recently which of the following institutes has launched Asia’s largest Shallow Wave Basin Research Facilitythat can
cater to Indian research and industry requirements?
A. Indian Institute of Technology Bombay(I IT Bombay)
B. Indian Institute of Technology Madras(I IT Madras)
C. Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur(I IT Kanpur)
D. Indian Institute of Technology Mandi(I IT Mandi)
Answer: B. Indian Institute of Technology Madras(I IT Madras)
Q) As per the recent“Threat Landscape Report 2024”by cyber intelligence firm Cloud SE K, what is India’s global rank
among the most targeted countries for cyberattacks?
A. Third
B. Second
C. Fifth
D. First
Answer: B. Second
●
These threatactorshavetargetedcompaniesfromvariouscountries,withthemostaffectedbeingthe United
States, India, Israel, Thailand, Brazil, China, Indonesia, France, and the United Kingdom, among others.
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
●
Top 3 countries:
○
The United Statesleadsasthemosttargetedcountrybythesethreatactors,withapproximately140
victims this year. This can be attributed to its vast sizeandthehighconcentrationofcompanies
operatingwithin its borders.
○
India,withapproximately95victims,rankssecond.Therapiddigitizationofservicesacrossthecountry
has signicantly expanded the attack surface, exposing vulnerabilities that threat actors can exploit.
○
Israel(3rd)withapproximately57victims,isalsoasignicanttarget.Ongoinggeopoliticaltensions,
particularly thosebetween Israel and Palestine, are likely driving some of these cyberattacks.
Q) According to a recent study Titled ‘Landslide Dam Studies in Uttarakhand, India: Past, Present, and Future'by I IT
Roorkee researchers Shivani Joshi and Srikrishnan Siva Subramanian, which of the following districts of Uttarakhand
was identified as the most affected by landslide dams?
A. Nainital
B. Uttarkashi
C. Chamoli
D. Almora
Answer: C. Chamoli
Q) Recently which of the following companies has introduced“Veo 2”A I-powered video generator, which offers higher
quality realism, better fidelity, advanced motion capabilities, and greater camera control options?
A. Swiftype
B. Google
C. Microsoft
D. Altaba
Answer: B. Google
Q) As per recent information, which of the following countries is building the world's largest airport named as Dalian
Jinzhouwan International Airporton a man-made island?
A. China
B. Saudi Arabia
C. Japan
D. United Arab Emirates(U AE)
Answer: A. China
Q) Recently, Gujarat has introduced the Har Ghar Connectivity(Fibre to Family) initiative, which aims to provide rural
households with affordable, high-speed internet access. This initiative, introduced by Gujarat Fibre Grid Network Limited
(G FG NL) plans to deliver ______________ Fibre-to-Home(F TT H) connections in collaboration with various agencies.
A. 10,000
B. 15,000
C. 25,000
D. 35,000
Answer: C. 25,000
Q) Recently, W AI SL has unveiled its Digital Twin-Powered Integrated Airport Predictive Operations Centre(A PO C)at
which of the following airports?
A. Biju Patnaik International Airport, Bhubaneswar
B. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Hyderabad
C. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad
D. Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi
Answer: B. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Hyderabad
Q) Recently, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India(F SS AI)has provided clarity on the regulatory framework
surrounding the use of methylcobalamin in health supplements, medical purposes and nutraceutical products.
Methylcobalamin is a form of which of the following vitamins?
A. Vitamin B3
B. Vitamin B5
C. Vitamin B12
D. Vitamin B9
Answer: C. Vitamin B12
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) What is the name of the mobile application recently launched by the Bihar Chief Ministerto enable citizens to report
poor road conditions, including those in the most remote areas of the state?
A. Hamara Bihar Hamari Raah
B. Hamara Bihar Hamari Sadak
C. Nayi Sadak, Naya Bihar
D. Hamara Bihar Hamara Vikaas
Answer: B. Hamara Bihar Hamari Sadak
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has decided to acquire 26 per cent stake in N DD B Mirda Ltd, a bio-gas
venture of National Dairy Development Board(N DD B), as part of its plans to use Compressed Bio-Gas(C BG)for
longevity and performance of vehicles?
A. Suzuki Motor Corporation
B. Ola Electric Mobility Pvt. Ltd.
C. Bajaj Auto Limited
D. Hyundai Motor India Ltd.
Answer: A. Suzuki Motor Corporation
Q) As per recent information, which of the following space startups, is planning to have anall-women scientific lunar
missionby September 2026, in which girl students in classes eight and nine from 108 countries will work alongside the
company’s team?
A. Kalam Labs
B. Space Kidz
C. Skyroot Aerospace
D. Dhruva Space
Answer: B. Space Kidz
Q) Recently, Saikumar K., a member of the Team of Research on Culture and Heritage(T OR CH), discovered a three-foot
idol of the 13th Century saint,Narahari Tirtha, in Simhachalam Temple. Simhachalam Temple is located in which of the
following places?
A. Hyderabad, Telangana
B. Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh
C. Kanchipuram, Tamil Nadu
D. Hampi, Karnataka
Answer: B. Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh
Q) As per recent information,Comptroller and Auditor General(C AG), is using a new digital tool to improve
transparency and accountability in public spending. What is the name of this tool?
A. Public Spending Tracker(P ST) platform
B. Open Data Kit(O DK) platform
C. Digital Accountability Platform(D AP) platform
D. Government Transparency Initiative(G TI) platform
Answer: B. Open Data Kit(O DK) platform
Q) Recently, which of the following army commands has organised a three-day“Know Your Army Mela 2025”, in the
run-up to the Army Day Parade?
A. Northern Command, Udhampur
B. Southern Command, Pune
C. Eastern Command, Kolkata
D. Central Command, Lucknow
Answer: B. Southern Command, Pune
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
12th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Women Entrepreneurship Platform(W EP) of N IT I Aayog has launched an initiative
titled ‘Empow HE R Biz – Sapno Ki Udaan’ in collaboration with which of the following companies??
A. Snapdeal
B. Big Basket
C. Reliance Fresh
D. New Shop
Answer: D. New Shop
Q) Recently, Prime Minister has laid the foundation stone for the state-of-the-art NT PC Green Energy Limited(N GE L)
Green Hydrogen Hub Projectat which of the followingplaces, which is the first Green Hydrogen Hub under the National
Green Hydrogen Mission?
A. Baragounia, Angul
B. Alandur, Chennai
C. Pudimadaka, Visakhapatnam
D. Konchur, Kalaburagi
Answer: C. Pudimadaka, Visakhapatnam
Q) Recently, Induction ceremony of the seventh Missile Cum Ammunition Barge(M CA) Barge,L SA M(Landing Ship
Ammunition) 14(Yard 82)was held at Naval Dockyard,Mumbai. This M CA Barge was constructed by which of the
following companies?
A. Titagarh Wagons Limited
B. A BG Shipyard Limited
C. M/s S EC ON Engineering Projects Pvt. Ltd
D. Bharati Defence and Infrastructure Limited
Answer: C. M/s S EC ON Engineering Projects Pvt. Ltd
Q) Recently, Union minister of road transport and highways has announced the expansion of the"Cashless Treatment"
schemeto all states by March 2025. Under the scheme,the government covers treatment cost of up to _____________ for
seven days, provided the police are informed about the accident within 24 hours.
A. ₹ 3.5 lakh
B. ₹ 4.5 lakh
C. ₹ 1.5 lakh
D. ₹ 2.5 lakh
Answer: C. ₹ 1.5 lakh
●
Underthescheme,thegovernmentcoverstreatmentcostofupto₹1.5lakhforsevendays,providedthepolice
are informedabout theaccident within 24 hours.
●
Additionally, forhit-and-run cases, ₹2 lakhwillbe given to thefamilies of the deceased.
●
Implementationoftheprogramwillbeoverseenbythe National Health Authority(N HA)incoordination
withpolice, hospitals,and State Health Agencies.
●
Theschemewilloperatethroughanintegrated ITplatformcombiningthe Ministryof Road Transportand
Highways' e-Detailed Accident Report(e DA R) application with the N HA's Transaction Management
System.
●
Initiallylaunchedasapilotprojectin Chandigarhon14 March2024,theinitiativewassubsequentlyextended
to six additional states.
●
The scheme aims to providetimely medical careduringthe critical golden hour after an accident.
Q) Recently, Goa Chief Minister has launched the‘Bima Sakhi Yojana’under the state’s Swayampurna Goa 2.0initiative.
The ‘Bima Sakhi Yojana’ is an initiative of which of the following companies?
A. H DF C Life Insurance Company Limited
B. Life Insurance Corporation of India(L IC)
C. Max Life Insurance Company Limited
D. Reliance Nippon Life Insurance Company Limited
Answer: B. Life Insurance Corporation of India(L IC)
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Indian Railways has successfully conducted a trial run of a tower wagon on Anji
Khad Bridge, the country’s first cable-stayed rail bridge. This bridge is located in
___________.
A. Kathua
B. Reasi
C. Udhampur
D. Ramban
Answer: B. Reasi
●
Located in the Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir, this monumental structure is part oftheambitious
Udampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link(U SB RL)Project,designedtoenhanceregionalconnectivityand
economic growth.
●
The Anji Khad bridge is a cable-stayed bridge connecting the Katra and Reasi sections of the
Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla-Rail-Link(U SB RL) in the Jammu Division of Jammu and Kashmir, India.
○
The U SB RL project spans272 kilometres.
●
The project is commissioned by the Northern Railways(New Delhi) and is being executed by Konkan
Railway Corporation Limited(K RC L)and Hindustan Construction Company(Mumbai).
●
Thisbridgeranksas India’ssecond-highestrailwaybridgeafterthe Chenab Bridge,whichholdstheworld
record at359 metresabove the riverbed.
●
Anji Khad Bridge is aremarkablefeatofengineering,featuringasinglepylonrising331metresabovethe
riverbed.
●
Thetotal length ofthe bridge is725.5 metres
Q) Recently, Government of Uttar Pradesh has launched a new initiative“Uttar Pradesh Open Network for Agriculture
(U PO NA)”, aimed at transforming the state’s agricultural ecosystem, in collaboration with which of the following
companies?
A. Wipro Limited
B. Google Cloud India
C. Tata Consultancy Services(T CS)
D. H CL Technologies Limited
Answer: B. Google Cloud India
Q) Recently, the State Bank of India(S BI)has revisedits G DP growth forecast for the financial year 2024-25(F Y25) to
what percentage?
A. 6.8%
B. 6.6%
C. 6.3%
D. 6.1%
Answer: C. 6.3%
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as new Secretary of Department of Investment and Public
Asset Management(D IP AM)?
A. Arunish Chawla
B. Sunil Kumar Gupta
C. Tuhin Kanta Pandey
D. Utpal Kumar Singh
Answer: A. Arunish Chawla
Q) In a recent study published in Nature, researchers introduced ‘_____________’, anewtime-stratifiedancestry
analysis, and applied it to ancient whole-genomesfrom Europe.
A. Ancestry X
B. Gene Stats
C. Twigstats
D. Genoflux
Answer: C. Twigstats
Q) India and the United States recently announced cooperation on the co-production of U.S. sonobuoysfor Undersea
Domain Awareness(U DA)for the Indian Navy, a high-endtechnology that allows tracking submarines in the deep seas
and oceans. Ultra Maritime(U S company) and which of the following Indian companies will produce these sonobuoys in
India?
A. Mahindra Defence Systems Limited
B. Bharat Dynamics Limited(B DL)
C. Astra Microwave Products Ltd.
D. Tata Advanced Systems Limited
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: B. Bharat Dynamics Limited(B DL)
Q) Recently, the theme song"Mahakumbh Hai”producedby Doordarshan for Mahakumbh 2025 has been released. It is
sung by who among the following?
A. Udit Narayan
B. Sonu Nigam
C. Kailash Kher
D. A. R. Rahman
Answer: C. Kailash Kher
Q) Recently,India AI, an Independent Business Division(I BD) under the Digital India Corporation, has signed a
Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with which of the following companies to drive the adoption and development of
artificial intelligence(A I) in India?
A. Oracle
B. Google
C. Microsoft
D. Intel
Answer: C. Microsoft
Q) The Telangana government has recently decided to observe the birth anniversary of Savitribai Phule as‘Women
Teacher’s Day’every year on which of the followingdates, to honor her contributions to women’s education?
A. 3rd January
B. 6th January
C. 10th January
D. 12th January
Answer: A. 3rd January
Q) Recently, Karnataka Forest Department has launched the‘Garudakshi’online F IR system to curb forest
encroachments, illegal tree-felling, poaching, and unauthorised entry into forest areas. This system is developed in
collaboration with which of the following organizations?
A. Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education(I CF RE) B. Centre for Wildlife Studies(C WS)
C. Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment(A TR EE) D. Wildlife Trust of India
Answer: D. Wildlife Trust of India
Q) Recently,C SI R-National Physical Laboratory(C SI R-N PL)has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with
which of the following institutes for academic and research collaboration?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Delhi
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Madras
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Roorkee
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Kanpur
Answer: B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Madras
Q) Recently, which of the following Food and grocery delivery platforms has launched a new app,Snacc,for delivery of
snacks, drinks and meals in 15 minutes?
A. Zepto
B. Blinkit
C. Swiggy
D. Big Basket
Answer: C. Swiggy
Q) Recently,'Modhweth' festivalhas been observedat Moonpo Temple in Muthanadu Mund, The Nilgiris district, Tamil
Nadu. This festival is associated with ___________.
A. Aranadan tribe
B. Koraga tribe
C. Malasar tribe
D. Toda tribe
Answer: D. Toda tribe
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
13th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) As per recent information, India has become self-sufficient in genomic data as India has
successfully decoded 10,000 whole genome samples under the Genome India Project. This Project is a
gene mapping project sanctioned by __________.
A. Department of Biotechnology
B. Indian Council of Medical Research(I CM R)
C. Department of Scientific and Industrial Research(D SI R)
D. Council of Scientific & Industrial Research(C SI R)
Answer: A. Department of Biotechnology
Q) Recently, India and Malaysia held their1st inaugural India-Malaysia Security Dialogueto enhance bilateral
cooperation at which of the following locations?
A. Mumbai
B. New Delhi
C. Chennai
D. Pune
Answer: B. New Delhi
Q) Recently, an upgradedonline organic traceability system‘_____________’ has been unveiled for seamless operations
and enhanced tools for regulatory oversight.
A. Digital Track 2.0
B. e-Track 2.0
C. Trace Link 2.0
D. Trace Net 2.0
Answer: D. Trace Net 2.0
Q) As per recently released“Future of Jobs Report 2025”, 170 million new roles will emerge, and 92 million will decline,
which will lead to a gain of 78 million jobs. This report has been released by which of the following organizations?
A. International Monetary Fund(I MF)
B. International Labour Organization(I LO)
C. World Economic Forum(W EF)
D. United Nations Development Programme(U ND P)
Answer: C. World Economic Forum(W EF)
Q) Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has inaugurated the18th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas conventionat which of the
following locations?
A. New Delhi, Delhi
B. Bhubaneswar, Odisha
C. Bengaluru, Karnataka
D. Ahmedabad, Gujarat
Answer: B. Bhubaneswar, Odisha
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has made a significant stride in India’s urban mobility sector by
delivering India’s 1st driverless, Made-in-India trainsetto Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited(B MR CL)?
A. Avadh Rail Infra Limited
B. Titagarh Rail Systems Limited
C. Central Railside Warehousing Company Limited
D. Hindusthan Engineering & Industries Limited
Answer: B. Titagarh Rail Systems Limited
Q) Recently,Global Energy Alliance for People and Planet(G EA PP)has strengthened its partnership with International
Solar Alliance(I SA) by signing Multi-Donor Trust Fund, which aims to mobilize ___________ to fund high-impact solar
energy projects.
A. $500 million
B. $100 million
C. $300 million
D. $600 million
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: B. $100 million
Q) Recently, ______________ has launched'Kumbhvani'an F M channel dedicated to disseminating information related
to the Maha Kumbh 2025.
A. E TV Network
B. Viacom18
C. Prasar Bharati
D. Sun T V Network
Answer: C. Prasar Bharati
Q) Recently,Animal Welfare Board of India(A WB I)has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with which of
the following universities to Train Animal Welfare Representatives?
A. N AL SA R University of Law, Hyderabad
B. Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi
C. National Law University, Delhi
D. Jawaharlal Nehru University(J NU), New Delhi
Answer: A. N AL SA R University of Law, Hyderabad
Q) As per recently released report titled “Towards Clear Skies 2025: An In-Depth Analysis of Air Quality Improvements
in Indian Cities(2019-2024)”, which of the following cities has emerged as the overall leader, achieving a remarkable
76.4 per cent reduction in air pollution?
A. Gangtok
B. Gurugram
C. Varanasi
D. Lucknow
Answer: C. Varanasi
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has waived the 10% community contribution for the'Har Ghar Nal'
schemeunder the Jal Jeevan Mission?
A. Jharkhand
B. Uttar Pradesh
C. Gujarat
D. Tamil Nadu
Answer: B. Uttar Pradesh
Q) Recently, which of the following states has introduced the Mukhyamantri Mangla Pashu Bima Yojana, a significant
initiative that ensures free insurance coverage for 21 lakh animals at a cost of Rs 400 crore?
A. Uttar Pradesh
B. Uttarakhand
C. Rajasthan
D. Gujarat
Answer: C. Rajasthan
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, who among the following has assumed the charge as Chairman-cum-Managing Director(C MD)of National
Aluminium Company Ltd(N AL CO)?
A. Sandip Kumar Mishra
B. P M Prasad
C. Brijendra Pratap Singh
D. Pulkesh Kumar
Answer: C. Brijendra Pratap Singh
Q) Recently, Karnataka government has launched a health insurance scheme for the employees of Karnataka State Road
Transport Corporation(K SR TC). What is the name of this scheme?
A. K SR TC Arogya
B. K SR TC Suraksha
C. K SR TC Jeevan Raksha
D. K SR TC Swasthya
Answer: A. K SR TC Arogya
Q) Recently, researchers from Stanford University and ____________ have developed aprototype device that generates
ammonia, an essential fertilizer component, directly from the air using wind energy.
A. Peking University, China
B. University of Melbourne, Australia
C. National University of Singapore, Singapore
D. King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Saudi Arabia
Answer: D. King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Saudi Arabia
Q) Recently,Coal India Limited(C IL)has signed a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with which of
the following companies to collaborate on the development of critical minerals?
A. Hindustan Zinc Limited(H ZL)
B. Indian Rare Earths Limited(I RE L)
C. National Aluminium Company Limited(N AL CO)
D. Bharat Aluminium Company Limited(B AL CO)
Answer: B. Indian Rare Earths Limited(I RE L)
Q) Recently, Governor of Goa has released ‘Ente Jeevitham Niraye: The Autobiography of a Nephrologist’. Who
amongst the following has written this book?
A. Dr. B.R. Mittal
B. Prof. S K Agarwal
C. Dr. K. Thomas Mathew
D. Dr. Rakesh Kapoor
Answer: C. Dr. K. Thomas Mathew
Q) As per recent information, 1st January 2025 has marked the ___________ anniversary of World Trade Organization
(W TO).
A. 29th
B. 32nd
C. 35th
D. 30th
Answer: D. 30th
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
14th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, who among of the following has conferred the prestigious “Pravasi Bharatiya Samman
award 2025”by President of India on the last day of the 18th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas(P BD)
convention at Bhubaneswar, Odisha?
A. Christine Carla Kangaloo
B. Dame Sandra Mason
C. Duma Boko
D. Rumen Radev
Answer: A. Christine Carla Kangaloo
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) As per recent information, during the 109th Foundation Day celebration of the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research -Central Plantation Crops Research Institute(I CA R- C PC RI) in Kasaragod, Kerala, the ‘Kisan Samriddhi
Market Portal’was launched. Which of the following institutes has developed this portal?
A. Indian Agricultural Research Institute(I AR I), New Delhi
B. Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal
C. Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute(A TA RI), Bengaluru
D. National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research(N IA P), New Delhi
Answer: C. Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute(A TA RI), Bengaluru
Q) As per the recently released United Nation’s flagship report-‘World Economic Situation and Prospects 2025,
(W ES P)’, India would again be the fastest growing large economy in the world with a projected annual growth rate of
____________.
A. 5.8 per cent
B. 6.3 per cent
C. 6.5 per cent
D. 6.6 per cent
Answer: D. 6.6 per cent
Q) Indian Navy has recently received the sixth Scorpene-class submarine ‘Vaghsheer’. Vaghsheer has been manufactured
by which of the following companies?
A. Hindustan Shipyard Ltd(H SL)
B. Cochin Shipyard Ltd
C. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
D. Goa Shipyard Limited
Answer: C. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
●
Other five submarines - Kalvari, Khanderi, Karanj, Vela, and Vagir
Q) Singapore has reclaimed its title as the world’s most powerful passport with visa-free access to 195 out of 227
destinations worldwide, as per the recently released Henley Passport Index 2025. What is the rank of India in the index?
A. 82nd
B. 85th
C. 88th
D. 90th
Answer: B. 85th
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Anemia Phone,a technology developed by ____________ researchers to accurately, quickly, and cheaply,
assess iron deficiency, has been transferred to the Indian Council of Medical Research(I CM R) for integration into its
programmes for anaemia, women’s health, and maternal and child health throughout the country.
A. Massachusetts Institute of Technology(M IT), United States B. Cornell University, United States
C. Monash University, Australia
D. University of Toronto, Canada
Answer: B. Cornell University, United States
Q) As per recent information,India’s first battery energy storage system(B ES S)is expected to go live in March 2025,
which is located at ____________.
A. Bikaner, Rajasthan
B. Kilokri, South Delhi
C. Khandwa, Madhya Pradesh
D. Fatehgarh, Uttar Pradesh
Answer: B. Kilokri, South Delhi
Q) Recently, which of the following states has launched PA RT H Yojana(Police Army Recruitment Training & Hunar)
with the objective of providing pre-recruitment training to the state’s youth for entry into the Indian Army, Police, and
Para-Military forces?
A. Tamil Nadu
B. Gujarat
C. Madhya Pradesh
D. Karnataka
Answer: C. Madhya Pradesh
Q) Recently, Himalayan "____________" dog has been recognised as a breed by the National
Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources(N BA GR)in Karnal, Haryana.
A. Gaddi
B. Jonangi
C. Kombai
D. Mudhol hound
Answer: A. Gaddi
Q) Recently,Microsoft Corporationhas entered in a three-year partnership with which of the following companies to
drive A I innovation and unlock the potential of A I in the skilling and higher education sectors?
A. up Grad
B. Vedantu
C. Unacademy
D. Classplus
Answer: A. up Grad
Q) Recently,Andhra Pradesh governmenthas joined hands with which of the following companies for pre-validating the
ongoing skill census, the first of its kind initiative in India to gauge the skill sets and competencies of 35 million people in
the working age population in the state?
A. Tata Consultancy Services
B. Infosys
C. Wipro
D. H CL Technologies
Answer: B. Infosys
Q) Recently, India’s indigenous surgical robotic system,S SI Mantrahas successfully conducted two robotic cardiac
surgeries via telesurgery over a distance of 286 kilometers. S SI Mantra has been developed by which of the following
companies?
A. Agappe Diagnostics
B. Medtronic
C. S S Innovations
D. Stryker
Answer: C. S S Innovations
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as the governing council member of the National Investment
and Infrastructure Fund Trustee Limited(N II FT L)?
A. Prashant Kumar
B. Sandeep Bakhshi
C. Challa Sreenivasalu Setty
D. Amitabh Chaudhry
Answer: C. Challa Sreenivasalu Setty
●
About National Investment and Infrastructure Fund Limited(N II FL):
○
N II FL, an Indian Public Sector Company, was established in December 2015 with the goal of
boostinginfrastructurefinancingbyinvestinginnew(greenfield),existing(brownfield),andstalled
projects.
○
N II FT Lwasestablishedtoserveasanadvisorycouncilto NI IF,offeringstrategicguidanceonmatters
such as the investment of N II FL’s corpus.
○
N II FT L is asix-member councilchaired by Finance Minister(Nirmala Sitharaman).
○
The other members of the council include Ajay Seth, Secretary of the D EA; M. Nagaraju, Secretary
of the Department of Financial Services(D FS), Mo F; and Hemendra Kothari, Chairman of the
Mumbai-based D SP Mutual Fund.
○
In November2020,the Union Cabinetapprovedtheproposalforanequityinfusionof Rs6,000croreby
thegovernmentin NI IF Debt Platformsponsoredbythe National Investmentand Infrastructure Fund
(N II F), comprising of Aseem Infrastructure Finance Ltd(A IF L)and NI IF Infrastructure Finance Ltd
(N II F-I FL).
○
Headquarters:Mumbai
○
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director:Sanjiv Aggarwal
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has successfully commissioned the first two units of the6x170 M W
Punatsangchhu-I I hydroelectric project(P HE P-I I)in Bhutan?
A. Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd(B HE L)
B. North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Ltd.(N EE PC O)
C. Power Grid Corporation of India Limited
D. Power System Operation Corporation Limited(P OS OC O)
Answer: A. Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd(B HE L)
Q) Recently, Tata Elxsi Limited has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with which of the following
companies/organisations to innovate in Advanced Air Mobility(A AM)?
A. Mahindra Defence Systems Limited
B. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited(H AL)
C. Aerial Delivery Research and Development Establishment(A DR DE), Agra
D. Council of Scientific & Industrial Research–National Aerospace Laboratories(C SI R-N AL)
Answer: D. Council of Scientific & Industrial Research–National Aerospace Laboratories(C SI R-N AL)
Q) Recently, Swiggy has signed a memorandum of understanding(Mo U) with which of the following non-governmental
organizations(N GOs) as a part of“Swiggy Serves”, a flagship program aimed to tackle food wastage and hunger, with a
goal to distribute 50 million meals by 2030?
A. Uday Foundation, New Delhi
B. Robin Hood Army(R HA), New Delhi
C. Akshaya Patra Foundation, Bangalore
D. Annamrita Foundation, New Delhi
Answer: B. Robin Hood Army(R HA), New Delhi
Q) Recently, for the first time, which of the following organizations has deployed three senior officers to the International
Criminal Police Organization(I NT ER PO L)to enhance coordination in combating transnational crimes and tracking
fugitives?
A. Indian Army
B. Intelligence Bureau(I B)
C. Central Bureau of Investigation(C BI)
D. Border Security Force(B SF)
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. Central Bureau of Investigation(C BI)
●
About I NT ER PO L:
○
The International Criminal Police Organization – I NT ER PO L, commonly known as Interpol, is an
international organization that facilitates worldwide police cooperation and crime control.
○
It is theworld's largest international police organization.
○
Itisheadquarteredin Lyon,France,withsevenregionalbureausworldwide,anda National Central
Bureau in all196 member states.
○
Formed:7 September 1923
○
Valdecy Urquiza:Secretary-General
○
Ahmed Naser Al-Raisi:President
Q) Recently, which of the following states has hosted the three-day festival ‘Pratishtha Dwadashi’?
A. Uttarakhand
B. Jharkhand
C. Bihar
D. Uttar Pradesh
Answer: D. Uttar Pradesh
5
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
15th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, ______________ has partnered with Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad’s
(I IM-A) startup incubator, I IM A Ventures to launch the 3rd cohort of ‘Swanari Tech Sprint 3.0’
programme.
A. Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation(D IC GC)
B. Ministry of Finance
C. Reserve Bank Information Technology Private Limited(Re BI T) D. Reserve Bank Innovation Hub(R BI H)
Answer: D. Reserve Bank Innovation Hub(R BI H)
Q) Recently, which of the following international organisation has approved U SD 35 million loan for a project
‘Meghalaya Multisectoral Project for Adolescent Wellbeing, Empowerment and Resilience(M PO WE R)’aimed to
improve education quality in Meghalaya?
A. Asian Development Bank(A DB)
B. World Bank
C. New Development Bank(N DB)
D. European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Answer: B. World Bank
Q) Recently, Central Government has mandated ‘Kisan Pehchaan Patra, or Digital Farmer I D’ for Pradhan Mantri Kisan
Samman Nidhi(P M-Kisan) scheme. Which of the following is not one of the features of this scheme?
A. It is a Central Sector Scheme
B. The scheme is meant for Small and Marginal Farmers(S MFs) having landholding up to 2 hectares
C. It is being implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
D. Financial benefit of Rs 6000 per year is provided under the scheme
Answer: B. The scheme is meant for Small and Marginal Farmers(S MFs) having landholding up to 2 hectares
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has joined UN Committee of Experts on Big Data and Data Science for
Official Statistics?
A. Thailand
B. Sri Lanka
C. India
D. Singapore
Answer: C. India
Q) Recently, which of the following institutes has been selected by Indian Council of Medical Research(I CM R) to
establish South India’s first Infectious Disease Research and Diagnostic Laboratory(I RD L)?
A. Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute(B MC RI), Bengaluru
B.Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Kochi
C. Madras Medical College, Chennai
D. Guntur Medical College, Guntur
Answer: A. Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute(B MC RI), Bengaluru
Q) Recently, Defence Research and Development Organisation(D RD O) has developed the ‘__________’clothing
systemto protect soldiers operating in extreme cold conditions.
A. Him Dhaal
B. Him Kavach
C. Him Yog
D. Him Suraksha
Answer: B. Him Kavach
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister has inaugurated'Maa Ki Rasoi,' a community kitchen initiative to support
economically weaker sections of society. It is operated by _____________.
A. Kasturi Foundation
B. Nandi Sewa Sansthan
C. Narayan Seva Sansthan
D. Akshaya Patra Foundation
Answer: B. Nandi Sewa Sansthan
Q) Recently, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, while presiding over the 50th-anniversary
celebrations of Himachal Pradesh Institute of Public Administration(H IP A)in Shimla, announced that the institute would
be renamed after ______________.
A. Indira Gandhi
B. Rajiv Gandhi
C. Dr Manmohan Singh
D. P. V. Narasimha Rao
Answer: C. Dr Manmohan Singh
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has announced the “world’s first” new sanctions regime to combat people
smuggling crime rings and block the illicit finance fuelling such operations as part of measures tocrack down on illegal
migration?
A. United Kingdom
B. France
C. Canada
D. United States
Answer: A. United Kingdom
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has picked Andhra Pradesh for setting up anew oil
refinery-cum-petrochemical complex, which may be the last greenfield project in India which has detailed a very
ambitious energy transition plan to net zero emissions?
A. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited(O NG C)
B. Indian Oil Corporation Limited(I OC L)
C. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited(B PC L)
D. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited(H PC L)
Answer: C. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited(B PC L)
Q) Recently, which of the following states and Toyama, an industrial prefecture on the Japan Sea coast, have renewed the
Mo U to strengthen bilateral ties and promote cooperation in manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, tourism, and digital
innovation sectors?
A. Uttar Pradesh
B. Andhra Pradesh
C. Kerala
D. Tamil Nadu
Answer: B. Andhra Pradesh
Q) As per recent information, Indian Space Research Organisation's(I SR O) L VM3 rocket will launch Blue Bird Block-2
satellitesthat plans to provide space-based cellular broadband network services on smartphones. This satellite is
associated with which of the following companies?
A. Blue Origin
B. Sierra Space Corporation
C. A ST Space Mobile
D. Relativity Space Inc.
Answer: C. A ST Space Mobile
Q) Recently, Director General National Cadet Corps(D G N CC) Lt Gen Gurbirpal Singh has inaugurated'Idea and
Innovation Competition' at which of the following places?
A. Prayagraj
B. Noida
C. New Delhi
D. Pune
Answer: C. New Delhi
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Prime Minister of India has inaugurated ‘Sonamarg tunnel’ in Jammu & Kashmir. This tunnel is located at
which of the following districts?
A. Ganderbal
B. Doda
C. Kulgam
D. Poonch
Answer: A. Ganderbal
Q) Recently, who among the following was named Chairperson of Athletics Federation of India(A FI)’s Athletes
Commission?
A. Sudha Singh
B. Krishna Poonia
C. M D Valsamma
D. Anju Bobby George
Answer: D. Anju Bobby George
●
Thecommissionincludessixwomenathletes:Anju Bobby George,a2003 World Championshipsbronzemedal
winnerandalsoaseniorvicepresidentinthe AF I;runner Jyotirmoyee Sikdar;discusthrower Krishna Poonia;
hurdler MD Valsamma; steeplechaser Sudha Singh; and runner Sunita Rani.
●
Three men athletes including Neeraj Chopra, 3000m steeplechaser Avinash Sableandnewly-elected AF I
president Bahadur Singh Sagoo, a shot-put gold medal winner at 2002 Asian Games.
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has become a “super-aged” societyas the share of its population aged 65 or
over surpassed 20%?
A. South Korea
B. Japan
C. Thailand
D. Indonesia
Answer: A. South Korea
●
According to the U N,a country is defined as"aging"when the share ofpeople aged 65+is above7%, "aged"
when it is14% or more, and “super-aged”when it exceeds20%.
Q) Recently, India has banned the popular painkiller ___________ after scientific studies confirmed that the drug had a
toxic impact onvultures, an endangered species.
A. Acetaminophen
B. Ibuprofen
C. Nimesulide
D. Aspirin
Answer: C. Nimesulide
Q) Recently, Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy has inaugurated “5 G Use Case Test Lab” at which of the following
institutes?
A. Indian Institute of Technology Dhanbad
B. Central Mine Planning and Design Institute(C MP DI), Ranchi
C. Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology(V NI T), Nagpur D. Indian Institute of Engineering Science and
Technology, Shibpur, Howrah
Answer: B. Central Mine Planning and Design Institute(C MP DI), Ranchi
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
16th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently,National River Traffic and Navigation System(N RT&N S)was launched during 2nd
Inland Waterways Development Council(I WD C) meet to create a safe, seamless and sustainable
movement of Inland vessels. This event was organized by _____________.
A. Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited
B. Inland Waterways Authority of India(I WA I)
C. Shipping Corporation of India
D. Sagarmala Development Company Limited
Answer: B. Inland Waterways Authority of India(I WA I)
Q) Recently,I NR OA D(Indian Natural Rubber Operations for Assisted Development)projectin North East has received
financial support of ₹100 crore for improving the quality of natural rubber. This project is implemented by
____________.
A. India Trade Promotion Organisation(I TP O)
B. Confederation of Indian Industry(C II)
C. Federation of Indian Export Organisations(F IE O)
D. Rubber Board of India
Answer: D. Rubber Board of India
Q) Recently,Kappad beachand Chal beachhave been bestowed with the coveted Blue Flag certification by
Denmark-based Foundation for Environmental Education(F EE). These beaches are associated with which of the
following states?
A. Odisha
B. Kerala
C. Tamil Nadu
D. Andhra Pradesh
Answer: B. Kerala
Q) Recently, Solar Industries has inaugurated a cutting-edgedrone and unmanned aerial vehicle(U AV) manufacturing
facilityat which of the following cities?
A. Lucknow
B. Bengaluru
C. Nagpur
D. Chennai
Answer: C. Nagpur
Q) As per recent information, approximately 1.76 crore students from 2.31 lakh schools have participated in fourth
edition of Project Veer Gatha. It is a joint initiative by Ministry of Defence and _____________.
A. Ministry of Home Affairs
B. Ministry of Education
C. Central Board of Secondary Education(C BS E)
D. National Council of Educational Research and Training(N CE RT)
Answer: B. Ministry of Education
Q) Recently, ___________ in India has been identified as a key global hotspot for threatened freshwater species by the
first-ever multi-taxon global freshwater fauna assessmentconducted by I UC N(International Union for Conservation of
Nature) Red List of Threatened Species.
A. Aravalli Range
B. Western Ghats
C. Himalayas
D. Eastern Ghats
Answer: B. Western Ghats
●
Thegreatestnumberofthreatenedspecieswerefoundin Lake Victoria(Kenya,Tanzaniaand Uganda),
Lake Titicaca(Boliviaand Peru),Sri Lanka’s Wet Zone,andthe Western Ghats(India).Theseareasnestle
some of the highestfreshwater biodiversityin the world, including many species found nowhere else.
●
Crabs,crayfishesandshrimpsareatthehighestriskofextinctionofthegroupsstudied,with30%ofall
these speciesbeingthreatened, followed by 26% of freshwater fishes and 16% of dragonflies and damselflies.
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) According to recent data shared by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, India has added about 30 G W(Gigawatt)
of new renewable energy capacity last year, 113 percent higher compared to 13.75 G W added in 2023. With the
expansion, India's total renewable energy capacity has reached _____________.
A. 234 G W
B. 230 G W
C. 205 G W
D. 218 G W
Answer: D. 218 G W
Q) Recently, on 1st January 2025,N IT I Aayog(National Institution for Transforming India)has celebrated
____________ years of its foundation.
A. 8
B. 7
C. 10
D. 12
Answer: C. 10
Q) Recently, United States President, Joe Biden has awarded the ‘Presidential Medal of Freedom with distinction’to
____________.
A. Pope Francis
B. Chris Lee
C. Rob Galea
D. David Michael Moses
Answer: A. Pope Francis
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has launched‘Swami Vivekanand Yuva Shakti Mission’on the
occasion of National Youth Day on 12 January 2025?
A. Uttar Pradesh
B. Maharashtra
C. Madhya Pradesh
D. Gujarat
Answer: C. Madhya Pradesh
Q) Recently, Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister has flagged off the Brahmaputra River rafting expedition, which is set to
cover 916 kilometers from Gelling in Upper Siang district, Arunachal Pradesh, to Hatsingimari in Dhubri district, Assam.
The expedition is organized by which of the following Institutes?
A. Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, Uttarkashi
B. National Institute of Mountaineering and Adventure
Sports(N IM AS), Dirang
C. Himalayan Mountaineering Institute, Darjeeling
D. Indian Institute of Skiing and Mountaineering(I IS M), Gulmarg
Answer: B. National Institute of Mountaineering and Adventure Sports(N IM AS), Dirang
Q) As per recent information, who among the following is set to grace the upcoming India’s Republic Day(R-Day)
celebrations 2025in the national capital as the Chief Guest?
A. Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa
B. Thongloun Sisoulith
C. Prabowo Subianto
D. Anura Kumara Dissanayake
Answer: C. Prabowo Subianto
Q) As per recent information, which of the following countries will host the28th Conference of Speakers and Presiding
Officers of Parliaments of Commonwealth Countries(C SP OC)in 2026?
A. Australia
B. Jamaica
C. India
D. Canada
Answer: C. India
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Union Minister of Commerce & Industry has unveiled the ____________, an initiative designed to enhance
India's cleantech value chains in the solar, wind, hydrogen, and battery storage sectors at the Bharat Climate Forum 2025
in New Delhi.
A. Bharat Cleantech Manufacturing Platform
B. India Cleantech Manufacturing Alliance
C. Bharat Technology Manufacturing Initiative
D. National Cleantech Innovation Platform
Answer: A. Bharat Cleantech Manufacturing Platform
Q) Recently, the“Boda Tyohar festival”has been held in Himachal Pradesh. This festival is annually celebrated by which
of the following tribes in Himachal Pradesh?
A. Pangwal
B. Swangla
C. Gaddi
D. Hatti
Answer: D. Hatti
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with Norway’s
H2 Carrier, to accelerate the development and deployment of green hydrogen and ammonia projects in India and Sri
Lanka?
A. Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency(I RE DA) Limited B. Greenstat Hydrogen India(G HI) Private Limited
C. Adani Green Energy Limited
D. N TP C Green Energy Limited
Answer: B. Greenstat Hydrogen India(G HI) Private Limited
Q) Recently,International Criminal Police Organisation, or I NT ER PO Lhas published its first-ever ________________ to
help trace and recover criminal assets, combat transnational organized crime and enhance international police
cooperation.
A. Yellow Notice
B. Red Notice
C. Silver Notice
D. Purple Notice
Answer: C. Silver Notice
Q) Recently, Union Minister Dr. Jitendra Singh announced the establishment of a Regional Meteorological Centre in
Jammu during a landmark event marking which anniversary of the India Meteorological Department(I MD)?
A. 145th
B. 148th
C. 153rd
D. 150th
Answer: D. 150th
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
17th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, which of the following has become the34th state to implement the Ayushman Bharat
Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana(A B P M-J AY)after the National Health Authority(N HA) signed
a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with its Department of Health and Family Welfare?
A. Telangana
B. Andhra Pradesh
C. Odisha
D. West Bengal
Answer: C. Odisha
●
The Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana(A BP M-J AY)(Centre’sflagshiphealthscheme)will
be implemented in convergence with the existing(state's) Gopabandhu Jan Arogya Yojana(G JA Y) in
Odisha.
●
It will provide a cover of Rs 5 lakh per family per annumwith additional Rs 5 lakh for women members.
●
Implementation of the converged scheme will be looked after by the National Health Authority(N HA)
(Headquarters: New Delhi) and Odisha’s State Health Assurance Society(S HA S).
Q) Recently,Purulia Observatoryhas been set up by the S N Bose Centre for Basic Sciences(S NB CB S) for astronomical
observations. S NB CB S has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with which of the following Universities of
West Bengal for joint responsibility of running the observatory and sharing resources?
A. Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University
B. Netaji Subhas Open University
C. Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda University
D. Vidyasagar University
Answer: A. Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University
Q) Union Minister of Commerce & Industry has recently inaugurated the National Turmeric Boardin New Delhi. Who
among the following has been appointed as its first Chairperson?
A. Gopal Rai
B. M. Vasanthagesan
C. Palle Ganga Reddy
D. Sawar Dhanania
Answer: C. Palle Ganga Reddy
●
Itisadedicatedbodyestablishedtopromoteturmericcultivation,research,andexports,ensuringholistic
growth in theturmericsector.
●
The headquarters of the Board has been set up at Nizamabad, Telangana.
●
Ministry:Operates under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
Q) Recently, Vice Admiral Sameer Saxena, Chief of Staff, Headquarters, Eastern Naval Command has flagged off a
Motorcycle Expedition 'Dare Square'from Visakhapatnam to Ayodhya. The rally is being conducted by I NS Ranvijay in
association with _____________.
A. Hero Moto Corp
B. Royal Enfield
C. Bajaj Pulsar
D. T VS Motor Company
Answer: C. Bajaj Pulsar
Q) Recently,Centre for Development of Telematics(C-D OT)has signed an agreement with which of the following
institutes for the development of "Wideband Spectrum-Sensor A SI C(Application-specific integrated circuit) Chip for
Enhancing the Spectrum Utilization"?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Roorkee
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Mandi
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Kanpur
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Patna
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Mandi
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has achieved a significant milestone in its flagship Combat Air Teaming
System(C AT S)programme with the successful completion of the engine ground run of a full-scale demonstrator,
C AT S-Warrior loyal wingman?
A. Bharat Dynamics Limited(B DL)
B. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited(H AL)
C. Tata Advanced Systems Limited
D. Mahindra Defence Systems Limited
Answer: B. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited(H AL)
Q) Recently, theworld's first 300 M W compressed air energy storage(C AE S)demonstration project, "Nengchu-1" was
fully connected to the grid in Yingcheng, central China's Hubei Province, marking the official commencement of
commercial operations for the power station. The project was constructed by which of the following companies?
A. Sinohydro Corporation Limited
B. China Energy Engineering Group Co. Ltd.(C EE C)
C. China National Nuclear Corporation(C NN C)
D. Shanghai Electric Group Company Limited
Answer: B. China Energy Engineering Group Co. Ltd.(C EE C)
Q) Recently, the second of the two Multi-Purpose Vessels, built by M/s Larsen & Toubro(L&T) Shipyardfor the Indian
Navy, was launched at Kattupalli, Chennai. What is the name of the second Multi-Purpose Vessel?
A. Pragati
B. Surya
C. Utkarsh
D. Daksh
Answer: C. Utkarsh
Q) As per recent information,National Road Safety Week, organised by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways
(Mo RT H), has been observed across India from _____________ to raise awareness about road safety.
A. January 11-17
B. January 1-7
C. January 13-19
D. January 15-21
Answer: A. January 11-17
●
National Road Safety Month, 2025 themeis"Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha".
Q) Recently, India and which of the following countries has conducted amaritime partnership exercisein the Arabian
Sea, showcasing their robust military cooperation and commitment to regional stability?
A. Germany
B. Singapore
C. France
D. Japan
Answer: C. France
Q) Recently, the book titled‘How India scaled Mt G20: The inside story of the G20 Presidency’was
released. This book has been written by who among the following?
A. S. Jaishankar
B. Amitabh Kant
C. Nirmala Sitharaman
D. Arvind Panagariya
Answer: B. Amitabh Kant
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with Korea-based
S II S(S I Imaging Services) Co. Ltd. to supplyhyperspectral satellite datain Korea?
A. Skyroot Aerospace
B. Agnikul
C. Pixxel
D. Dhruva Space
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. Pixxel
Q) As per the recent data from Copernicus Climate Change Service(C3 S), the year _____________ was the world's
warmest on record globally, and the first calendar year in which global temperatures exceeded 1.5°C above its
pre-industrial levels.
A. 2021
B. 2022
C. 2024
D. 2023
Answer: C. 2024
Q) Recently, the Centre's wildlife panel has approved a proposal by Vedanta Group's Cairn Oil & Gas to carry out oil and
gas exploration in the eco-sensitive zone of Hoollongapar Gibbon Wildlife Sanctuaryin which of the following states?
A. Assam
B. Manipur
C. Sikkim
D. Nagaland
Answer: A. Assam
Q) Recently, Sri Lanka’s first certificate course in Hindi through open and distance learning was launched during the
‘Bharat-Sri Lanka Hindi Sammelan’ to mark the50th-anniversary celebrations of World Hindi Day. The certificate
course is a collaborative initiative between the Open University of Sri Lanka and which of the following organizations?
A. Central Hindi Directorate, New Delhi
B. Sri Lanka Foundation Institute
C. Indian Council for Cultural Relations, New Delhi
D. Swami Vivekananda Cultural Centre(S VC C), Colombo
Answer: D. Swami Vivekananda Cultural Centre(S VC C), Colombo
●
World Hindi Day 2025theme -“A Global Voice of Unity and Cultural Pride”
Q) Recently, an indigenoussilver nanowire-based conductive ink technologywas transferred to the M/s Chematico
Technologies Private Limited, incubated at Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Ropar and M/s Vasanthbala Functional
Materials Pvt Ltd, incubated at ______________.
A. National Institute of Technology(N IT) Warangal
B. National Institute of Technology(N IT) Rourkela
C. National Institute of Technology(N IT) Jaipur
D. National Institute of Technology(N IT) Hamirpur
Answer: A. National Institute of Technology(N IT) Warangal
Q) Recently, the“Gaan Ngai festival”commemorating the end of the harvest season, has been celebrated in which of the
following States/Union Territories?
A. Odisha
B. Puducherry
C. Manipur
D. Sikkim
Answer: C. Manipur
Q) Recently, who among the following was sworn in as the53rd President of Venezuelafor the 3rd consecutive term?
A. Hugo Chávez
B. Jorge Arreaza
C. Diosdado Cabello
D. Nicolas Maduro Moros
Answer: D. Nicolas Maduro Moros
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
18th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched Mission Mausamwith an outlay of Rs.
2,000 crore over two years. Mission Mausam will be chiefly implemented by which of the following
ministries?
A. Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change
B. Ministry of Science and Technology
C. Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
D. Ministry of Earth Sciences
Answer: D. Ministry of Earth Sciences
Q) Recently, which of the following country’s state-run atomic agency has shipped the VV ER-1000 reactor vesselfor the
sixth power unit of Kudankulam nuclear power plant(Kudankulam, Tirunelveli District, Tamil Nadu) to India?
A. France
B. Japan
C. Russia
D. South Korea
Answer: C. Russia
Q) Recently, Union Minister of Electronics and Information Technology has launched India’s 1st fully indigenous 64-bit
V EG A based System on-Chip(So C) named TH EJ AS64, which is fabricated at the ______________.
A. Semiconductor Laboratory(S CL), Mohali
B. Advanced Systems Laboratory(A SL), Hyderabad
C. Laboratory for Electro-Optics Systems(L EO S), Bengaluru
D.Defence Research & Development Laboratory(D RD L), Hyderabad
Answer: A. Semiconductor Laboratory(S CL), Mohali
Q) Recently, Indian Navy has announced the commissioning of IN S Nilgiri, the first ship of the P17 A Stealth Frigate
Project. I NS Nilgiri has been built by which of the following companies?
A. Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers(G RS E) Limited
B. Cochin Shipyard Limited(C SL)
C. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
D. Goa Shipyard Limited(G SL)
Answer: C. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
Q) Recently, Government has re-constituted the Atomic Energy Commission(A EC)to include T V Somanathan and
Manoj Govil, who took over as the Cabinet Secretary and Expenditure Secretary respectively. Who among the following
is serving as the Chairman of the A EC?
A. M. R. Srinivasan
B. Ajit Kumar Mohanty
C. Ravi Grover
D. Anil Kakodkar
Answer: B. Ajit Kumar Mohanty
●
Governmenthasre-constitutedthe Atomic Energy Commission(A EC)toinclude TV Somanathanand Manoj
Govil, who took over as the Cabinet Secretaryand Expenditure Secretary respectively.
●
The AE Calsoincludes Pankaj Kumar Mishrawhotookoveras Member(Finance)lastyear,accordingtoa
notification issued on October 21 last year and published in the Gazette on January 9.
●
Ajit Kumar Mohanty, Secretary,Department of Atomic Energy(D AE), is the Chairmanof the AE C.
●
Thecommissionhas National Security Adviser Ajit Doval,Principal Secretarytothe Prime Minister Pramod
Kumar Mishra, Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri, Somanathanand Govilasex-officio members.
●
Othermembersincludeformerchairpersonsofthe AE CM RSrinivasanand Anil Kakodkar,former Secretary
Departmentof Scienceand Technology PRama Rao,formerprincipaladviser DA ERavi BGrover,andformer
Space Commissionchairman K Kasturirangan.
●
Bhabha Atomic Research Centre Director Vivek Bhasinis also an ex-officio member of the commission.
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, the Keel-Laying ceremony of a Training Ship(Yard 16101)for Indian Coast Guard(I CG) was held. Yard
16101 has been built by which of the following companies?
A. Goa Shipyard Limited(G SL)
B. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd(M DL)
C. Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers(G RS E)
D. Hindustan Shipyard Limited(H SL)
Answer: B. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd(M DL)
Q) Recently, the Entrepreneurship Development Conclave 2025, themed “Empowering Entrepreneurs Transforming
Livestock Economics”, was held at which of the following locations?
A. New Delhi
B. Pune
C. Jaipur
D. Chennai
Answer: B. Pune
Q) Recently,Bihar Sports Universitywas recognized by the University Grants Commission(U GC) under Section 2(f) of
the U GC Act, 1956, enabling it to offer academic courses in physical education and sports sciences, including
undergraduate programs, diplomas, and Post Graduate(P G) diplomas. It is located at which of the following places?
A. Siwan
B. Nawada
C. Rajgir
D. Samastipur
Answer: C. Rajgir
Q) Recently, President of India has launched the‘Gift Milk Program’,which is designed to combat malnutrition and
improve the health of the children. This program will provide _____________ of flavoured milk fortified with Vitamins
A and D to approximately 1,200 school children in Mayurbhanj, Odisha.
A. 200 ml
B. 400 ml
C. 600 ml
D. 800 ml
Answer: A. 200 ml
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed by Reserve Bank of India(R BI)to oversee the Monetary
Policy and Economic Research Departments?
A. T. Rabi Sankar
B. M.K. Jain
C. M. Rajeshwar Rao
D. B.P. Kanungo
Answer: C. M. Rajeshwar Rao
Q) Recently,Central Industrial Security Force(C IS F), has approved the formation of two new battalions. Each of the
newly sanctioned battalions will comprise ____________ personnel.
A. 920
B. 1025
C. 1320
D. 1500
Answer: B. 1025
Q) Recently, which of the following ministries with support from the Uttar Pradesh Government has set up a‘Kalagram’
in the Nagavasuki area of Mahakumbh 2025 in Prayagraj?
A. Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs
B. Ministry of Culture
C. Ministry of Tourism
D. Ministry of Rural Development
Answer: B. Ministry of Culture
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, a team of researchers from which of the following institutes has successfully used an enzyme - esterase
enzyme, produced by soil bacteria Sulfobacillus acidophilus to break downdiethyl hexyl phthalate(D EH P) plasticizer?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Roorkee
B. Indian Institute of Science(I ISc), Bengaluru
C. Jawaharlal Nehru University(J NU), New Delhi
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Madras
Answer: A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Roorkee
Q) Recently, which of the following organizations has launched afirst-ever online servicethat allows civilians to adopt
retired sniffer and assault dogs?
A. Central Reserve Police Force(C RP F)
B. Central Industrial Security Force(C IS F)
C. Border Security Force(B SF)
D. Railway Protection Force(R PF)
Answer: A. Central Reserve Police Force(C RP F)
Q) Recently, which of the following states has proposed a strict"no helmet, no fuel"policy across cities in the state in an
effort to reduce road accidents and fatalities involving two-wheelers?
A. Jharkhand
B. Punjab
C. Himachal Pradesh
D. Uttar Pradesh
Answer: D. Uttar Pradesh
Q) Recently, the Field Evaluation Trials of“Nag Mk 2”the third-generation Anti-Tank Fire-and-Forget Guided Missile,
were successfully conducted at Pokhran Field Range, Rajasthan. Nag Mk 2 has been built by which of the following
organisations/companies?
A. Tata Advanced Systems Limited(T AS L)
B. Defence Research and Development Organisation(D RD O)
C. Mahindra Defence Systems Limited
D. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited(H AL)
Answer: B. Defence Research and Development Organisation(D RD O)
Q) As per recent information, who amongst the following has authored the book titled “Parliament: Powers, Functions &
Privileges; A Comparative Constitutional Perspective"?
A. Dr. Varun S Bhati
B. Anshu Agarwal
C. Dr. K S Chauhan
D. Rajesh Mishra
Answer: C. Dr. K S Chauhan
Q) Recently,Madagascar and the French territory of Mayottein the Indian Ocean were hit by Tropical Cyclone
____________.
A. Honde
B. Jude
C. Ancha
D. Dikeledi
Answer: D. Dikeledi
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
19th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology in association with _____________
has launched the'Cyber Security Grand Challenge 2.0'with a combined prize money of ₹6.85 Crore.
A. Indian Computer Emergency Response Team(C ER T-In)
B. Data Security Council of India(D SC I)
C. Centre for Development of Advanced Computing(C-D AC)
D. National Informatics Centre(N IC)
Answer: B. Data Security Council of India(D SC I)
Q) A flagship initiative of the Government of India,“Startup India”aimed to nurture innovation and catalyse the growth
of startups across the country, has recently marked how many years of implementation?
A. Six
B. Nine
C. Twelve
D. Fourteen
Answer: B. Nine
Q) Recently, Union Rural Development and Agriculture Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan has approved 56 new watershed
development projects worth of ₹700 crore, under Watershed Development Component of Pradhan Mantri Krishi
Sinchayee Yojana(W DC-P MK SY). Which of the following departments is implementing the W DC-P MK SY?
A. Department of Rural Development
B. Department of Land Resources
C. Department of Fertilizers
D. Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare
Answer: B. Department of Land Resources
Q) Recently, a joint exercise involving the elite airborne soldiers from the Indian Army and the Indian Air Forcehas been
held. What is the name of this Exercise?
A. Exercise Rudra Akrosh
B. Exercise Vayu Prahar
C. Exercise Devil Strike
D. Exercise Agni Strike
Answer: C. Exercise Devil Strike
Q) Recently, the Prize Distribution Ceremony of the25th National Youth Parliament Competition, 2023-24, for Jawahar
Navodaya Vidyalayas was held in New Delhi. Which of the following schools secured the first position in this
competition?
A. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Gharota
B. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Chandrapur
C. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Theog
D. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Kaloi
Answer: B. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Chandrapur
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Gangasagar Mela, the second-largest Hindu fair after the Kumbh Mela, has been held in which of the
following states?
A. Uttarakhand
B. West Bengal
C. Jharkhand
D. Bihar
Answer: B. West Bengal
●
Gangasagaris a mela and festival in Hinduism,held every yearat Gangasagar, West Bengal, India.
●
The confluence of the Ganges and the Bay of Bengalis called the Gangasagar, the fair is held everyyear on
Makar Sankranti at Kapilmuni's ashramlocatedon the Gangasagar.
●
The mela is celebrated on14 or 15 January every year.
●
Gangasagar Mela is thesecond largest Hindu fair(after Kumbh Mela). Many peoplefrom different states of
India come here every year to take a holy bath on Makar Sankranti day.
Q) Recently, Space X has launched a pair of lunar landers,'Blue Ghost' and 'Resilience,'aiming to touch down on the
Moon. Which of the following companies has developed Blue Ghost, a robotic lander designed to carry scientific
instruments and other payloads to the lunar surface?
A. Bellatrix Aerospace
B. ispace
C. E-Space
D. Firefly Aerospace
Answer: D. Firefly Aerospace
Q) Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has inaugurated the Sri Sri Radha Madanmohanji Temple, Asia’s
second-largest I SK CO N temple at which of the following places?
A. Mayapur, West Bengal
B. Puri, Odisha
C. Kharghar, Navi Mumbai
D. Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh
Answer: C. Kharghar, Navi Mumbai
Q) Recently, scientists from which of the following institutes/centres have developed adevice using silver wire network
on a stretchable material, that senses strain, mimics pain perception and adapts its electrical response accordingly?
A. Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research
B.Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences(Ce NS), Bengaluru
(J NC AS R), Bengaluru
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT), Delhi
D. Indian Institute of Science(I ISc), Bengaluru
Answer: A. Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research(J NC AS R), Bengaluru
Q) Recently, Union Minister for Education has launched the registration portal for the3rd edition of Kashi Tamil
Sangamam(K TS). Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madras and ______________ are the implementing agencies for
the K TS programme.
A. Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow
B. Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi
C. Banaras Hindu University(B HU), Varanasi
D. Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut
Answer: C. Banaras Hindu University(B HU), Varanasi
Q) Recently, which of the following companies successfully launched India's first private satellite constellation(Firefly)
aboard the Transporter-12 rideshare mission with Space X from Vandenberg Space Force Base, California, U SA?
A. Bellatrix Aerospace
B. Pixxel
C. Erisha Space
D. Manastu Space
Answer: B. Pixxel
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Indian Army Day 2025(77th Army Day) under the Theme: 'Samarth Bharat, Saksham Sena' has been
observed on which of the following dates?
A. 13th January
B. 15th January
C. 17th January
D. 19th January
Answer: B. 15th January
●
Indian Army Day 2025 Theme:'Samarth Bharat, Saksham Sena'(Capable India, Empowered Army)
Q) Recently, N PC I International Payments Ltd(N IP L), the international arm of the National Payments Corporation of
India(N PC I), has partnered with which of the following companies to offer Unified Payments Interface(U PI) as a
transaction method for Indians visiting United Arab Emirates(U AE)?
A. Qlub
B. Bit Oasisd
C. Magnati
D. Nymcard
Answer: C. Magnati
Q) As per recent information, which of the following countries will participate as a country partner in the Global
Investors Summit(G IS)scheduled in Bhopal on February 24-25?
A. Russia
B. Germany
C. Japan
D. South Korea
Answer: C. Japan
●
Global Investors Summit(G IS)2025isthe8theditionofpremierbiennialevent,Invest Madhya Pradesh–
Global Investors Summit,scheduledfor February24-25,2025,in Bhopal,thevibrantcapitalof Madhya
Pradesh.
●
This two-day is organized by the Department of Industrial Policy and Investment Promotion(D IP IP),
Governmentof Madhya Pradesh,aimstohighlighttheinvestmentclimateandindustrialinfrastructureof
Madhya Pradesh, offeringnumerous opportunities for potential collaborations.
●
Itservesasaplatformforgloballeaders,industrialists,andexpertstoshareinsightsonemergingmarketsand
trends, and to explore waystoleverage the investment potential of Madhya Pradesh.
●
M PI DC(M P Industrial Development Corporation) is the Single Window Secretariat for Investment
Promotionand Facilitationinthestatesince2004.M PI DCdrivesindustrialdevelopmentandinvestmentin
Madhya Pradesh, fostering economic growth and opportunities.
Q) Recently, in a bid to assist the Uttar Pradesh government in the city’s beautification efforts, _____________, through
its‘Paint My City’ campaign, is playing a role in showcasing Prayagraj’s cultural and spiritual grandeur?
A. Indian Railways
B. Ministry of Tourism
C. National Highways Authority of India
D. Ministry of Culture
Answer: A. Indian Railways
Q) As per recently released,Q S World Future Skills Index 2025, India
secured the _____________ position globally in the Index, excelling in
the "Future of Work" category with the second-highest score(99.1)
globally, just behind the United States.
A. 22nd
B. 25th
C. 36th
D. 31st
Answer: B. 25th
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, the Government of India has designated areas around Shikari Devi Wildlife Sanctuary, as eco-sensitive
zones(E SZs) to reduce the impact of urbanisation and developmental activities on the surrounding protected. Shikari
Devi Wildlife Sanctuary is located in which of the following states?
A. Haryana
B. Bihar
C. Himachal Pradesh
D. Uttarakhand
Answer: C. Himachal Pradesh
Q) A recent study by the climate attribution group Clima Meter suggests that wildfires have caused significant damage to
large areas of Los Angeles city, primarily due to a phenomenon known as‘hydroclimate whiplash’. What does
hydroclimate whiplash refer to?
A. A rapid shift in wind patterns causing extreme weather
B. A sudden increase in ocean temperatures leading to stronger storms
C. A long-term shift in rainfall distribution over a region
D. A rare meteorological condition wherein an extremely wet season is succeeded by an extremely dry season
Answer: D.A rare meteorological condition wherein an extremely wet season is succeeded by an extremely dry season
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
20th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Union Cabinet has approved the establishment of Third Launch Pad(T LP)at which of
the following places?
A. Thiruvananthapuram
B. Sriharikota
C. Kozhikode
D. Varkala
Answer: B. Sriharikota
Q) Recently, government has shared data insights from latest PR AB HA AV(Powering a Resilient & Agile Bharat for the
Advancement of Visionary Startups) factsheet. P RA BH AA V factsheet is launched by ____________.
A. Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade(D PI IT)
B. Directorate General of Foreign Trade(D GF T)
C. Department of Economic Affairs
D. Department of Investment and Public Asset Management(D IP AM)
Answer: A. Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade(D PI IT)
Q) As per recently released report titled ‘Global Economic Prospects report – January 2025’, World Bank has kept its
growth forecast for India at ____________ for F Y26.
A. 6.2 per cent
B. 7.1 per cent
C. 7.4 per cent
D. 6.7 per cent
Answer: D. 6.7 per cent
Q) Recently, Ministry of Defence has launched ‘Bharat Ranbhoomi Darshan’, a website to provide a one-stop solution for
information and clearances for visits to forward area battlefields. This website is developed in partnership with
____________.
A. Ministry of Culture
B. Ministry of Home Affairs
C. Ministry of Tourism
D. Ministry of Rural Development
Answer: C. Ministry of Tourism
Q) As per recently released ‘Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2025’, nearly 60% of organizations state that geopolitical
tensions have affected their cybersecurity strategy. This report is released by World Economic Forum(W EF) in
collaboration with ____________.
A. Deloitte
B. Accenture
C. Cognizant
D. Capgemini
Answer: B. Accenture
Q) Recently,Fast Track Immigration-Trusted Traveler Programme(F TI-T TP)was inaugurated at seven airports. Ministry
of Civil Aviation has collaborated with ___________ to develop its roadmap.
A. Directorate General of Civil Aviation
B. Bureau of Civil Aviation Security
C. Airports Authority of India
D. Bureau of Immigration
Answer: D. Bureau of Immigration
Q) Recently, India’s first Archaeological Experiential Museumhas been inaugurated at which of the following places?
A. Jamnagar
B. Vadnagar
C. Anand
D. Surat
Answer: B. Vadnagar
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) As per recent announcement, India and which of the following countries will commemorate 2026 as a ‘dual year’
focusing on culture, tourism, and advancements in artificial intelligence(A I)?
A. United States of America
B. France
C. Spain
D. Norway
Answer: C. Spain
Q) Recently, India has successfully tested Bhargavastra, its first micro-missile system designed to counter swarm drones.
Bhargavastra is developed by which of the following companies?
A. Economic Explosives Ltd
B. Mahindra Defence Systems Limited
C. Paras Defence And Space
D. Larsen & Toubro Limited
Answer: A. Economic Explosives Ltd
Q) Recently, researchers of which of the following countries has developed a new technology which has achieved an
“unprecedented”rare earthrecovery rate of 95 per cent, while shortening mining time by 70 per cent?
A. Russia
B. United States of America(U SA)
C. China
D. Japan
Answer: C. China
Q) Recently,National Red Run 2.0was organized to raise awareness about H IV(human immunodeficiency virus)
prevention through sports and community engagement. It is organised by _____________ in collaboration with Goa State
A ID S Control Society(G SA CS).
A. Save LI FE Foundation
B. National A ID S Control Organization(N AC O)
C. Give Foundation
D. Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(C DS CO)
Answer: B. National A ID S Control Organization(N AC O)
Q) Recently, which of the following organisation has launched “One Plate, One Bag” campaignat Maha Kumbh 2025, to
make the world’s largest religious congregation plastic-free?
A. Seva Mandir
B. Goonj
C. Robin Hood Army
D. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh(R SS)
Answer: D. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh(R SS)
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has launched ‘S HE C OH OR T 3.0(Startups Handholding &
Empowerment – Cohort 3.0)’to nurture tech-led women startups?
A. Haryana
B. Himachal Pradesh
C. Punjab
D. Uttarakhand
Answer: C. Punjab
Q) Recently, Ministry of Defence has signed a contract with which of the following companies for the supply of
Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missiles(M RS AM)for Indian Navy at a cost of approximately Rs 2,960 crore?
A. Bharat Dynamics Limited(B DL)
B. Bharat Electronics Limited(B EL)
C. Munitions India Limited(M IL)
D. Yantra India Limited(Y IL)
Answer: A. Bharat Dynamics Limited(B DL)
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade(D PI IT)has entered into a strategic partnership
with which of the following companies to further promote entrepreneurship and innovation?
A. Hinduja Group
B. Tata Group
C. Adani Group
D. I TC Limited
Answer: D. I TC Limited
Q) Recently, Singapore has awarded who among the following with ‘Honorary Citizen Award’ for his outstanding
contributions to Singapore and Singapore-India relations?
A. Pritam Singh
B. Tarun Das
C. Kartar Singh Thakral
D. P. Govindasamy Pillai
Answer: B. Tarun Das
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as Ombudsmanof the Board of Control for Cricket in India
(B CC I)?
A. Justice Madan Bhimarao Lokur
B. Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel
C. Justice Arun Mishra
D. Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre
Answer: C. Justice Arun Mishra
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has finalized a Joint Venture Agreement with S JV N Ltd., G MR Energy
Ltd., and Nepal Electricity Authority(N EA) for development of900 M W Upper Karnali Hydro-electric Project in Nepal?
A. N TP C Limited
B. Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited(I RE DA)
C. N HP C Limited
D. Power Grid Corporation of India(P OW ER G RI D)
Answer: B. Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited(I RE DA)
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
21st January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has successfully launched the‘Shijian-25’satellite into
Geostationary Transfer Orbit(G TO) aboard a Long March 3 B rocket marking its first space mission
of 2025?
A. Japan
B. China
C. South Korea
D. Singapore
Answer: B. China
Q) As per recently released“Annual India Fintech Report 2024”, India has ranked at _____________ position globally in
terms of funding received in the fintech segment, despite witnessing a decline of 33% on a Year-over-Year(Y-o-Y) to
U SD 1.9 billion, down from U SD 2.8 billion funding garnered in 2023.
A. 2nd
B. 3rd
C. 5th
D. 7th
Answer: B. 3rd
●
1st- United States of America(U SA), 2nd- United Kingdom(U K)
●
Top3 Indiancitieswhichemergedashubforfintechfundingin2024:Bengaluru(Karnataka),Mumbai
(Maharashtra) and Delhi(Delhi).
●
Top3 Investing Companies:Karnataka-based Peak XV Partners,Lets Venture Technologies Private Limited
based in Bengaluru, Karnataka, and California(the United States of America, U SA)-based Y Combinator, L LC.
●
Top3companiesin Seed Investments:Mumbai(Maharashtra)-based Venture Catalysts Private Limited,Y
Combinator L LC, and Singapore-based Antler.
●
Top3companiesin Early-Stage Funding:Gurugram(Haryana)-based Elevation Capital,Tokyo(Japan)-based
G MO Venture Partners, Inc. and Peak X V Partners
●
Top3companiesin Late-Stage Funding:Karnataka-based Creaegis Investment Advisers Private Limited,
U SA-based The Rise Fund,and Amara Partners.
Q) Recently,Telecom Regulatory Authority of India(T RA I)has released a ‘Draft Telecommunication Tariff(71st
Amendment) Order, 2025’ which proposes the rationalization of broadband tariffs for Public Data Offices(P DOs) under
the P M-W AN I scheme. In the acronym ‘P M-W AN I’, what does the letter ‘I’ represent?
A. Internet
B. Interface
C. Integration
D. Infrastructure
Answer: B. Interface
●
P M-W AN I stands for Prime Minister’s Wi-Fi Access Network Interface
Q) As per the recently released “20th Global Risks Report 2025”, the top five risks for India include water supply
shortages, misinformation and disinformation, erosion of human rights and civic freedoms, pollution(air, water, and soil),
and labour and talent shortages. Which of the following organizations has released this report?
A. International Monetary Fund(I MF)
B. United Nations Development Programme(U ND P)
C. World Economic Forum(W EF)
D. World Bank
Answer: C. World Economic Forum(W EF)
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has inaugurated the“Bharat Mobility Global Expo 2025”at which of the
following locations?
A. Pune
B. New Delhi
C. Chennai
D. Bengaluru
Answer: B. New Delhi
●
The theme of this year’s expo is “Beyond Boundaries: Co-creating Future Automotive Value Chain”
Q) Recently,North Atlantic Treaty Organization(N AT O)has announced the development of a new mission in the Baltic
Sea, which aims to increase surveillance of ships. What is the name of this mission?
A. Baltic Watch
B. Baltic Sentry
C. Baltic Guardian
D. Baltic Sea Shield
Answer: B. Baltic Sentry
Q) According to the recently released'Country Climate and Development Report(C CD R)', Cabo Verde, a small
archipelago off the coast of West Africa, is estimated to require an investment of $842 million from 2024 to 2030, or
approximately $140 million annually, to tackle its climate and development challenges. Which of the following
organizations has published this report?
A. International Monetary Fund(I MF)
B. World Bank
C. African Development Bank(Af DB)
D. European Central Bank(E CB)
Answer: B. World Bank
Q) Which of the following state’s Chief Minister has recently transferred ₹1,415.44 crore to 56.61 lakh women under
‘Maiyan Samman Yojana’?
A. Tamil Nadu
B. Gujarat
C. Jharkhand
D. Karnataka
Answer: C. Jharkhand
Q) Recently, Indichip Semiconductors in partnership with Japan's Yitoa Micro Technology(Y MT L), has signed an
agreement with which of the following state governments to establish India's first private semiconductor manufacturing
facility?
A. Andhra Pradesh
B. Tamil Nadu
C. Karnataka
D. Gujarat
Answer: A. Andhra Pradesh
Q) Recently, which of the following banks has launched its first-ever‘Cybersecurity Hackathon 2024-25’to address the
growing threat of malware by inviting innovators, researchers, and academicians from across India?
A. Canara Bank
B. State Bank of India(S BI)
C. Punjab National Bank(P NB)
D. Bank of India
Answer: C. Punjab National Bank(P NB)
●
Theme - Code Against Malware
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has developed World’s Most Powerful Hydrogen Train Engine,having a
capacity of 1,200 horsepower?
A. Australia
B. India
C. Russia
D. Canada
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: B. India
●
India Develops World’s Most Powerful Hydrogen Train Engine.Itwillundergoitsfirsttrialrunonthe
Jind-Sonipat routein Haryana.
●
The engine has been made by Indian Railwaysusingindigenous technology.
Q) As per recent information, Maha Kumbh 2025 will witness the installation of a 52- feet -long and 52- feet -wide Maha
Mrityunjaya Yantra. The 3 D yantra has been designed at ____________.
A. Sri Atri Maharishi Nadi Astrology Centre
B. Maharishi Sandipani Rashtriya Ved Vidya Pratishthan
C. Siddh Maha Mrityunjaya International Yoga and Astrology Research Center
D. Bhagavad Gita Foundation
Answer: C. Siddh Maha Mrityunjaya International Yoga and Astrology Research Center
Q) Recently, which of the following states announced that it will provide a monthly pension of ₹20,000 and coverage for
medical expenses to all individuals from the state who were imprisoned during the Emergencyand are alive as of January
1, 2025?
A. Andhra Pradesh
B. Tamil Nadu
C. Odisha
D. Gujarat
Answer: C. Odisha
Q) Recently,Indian Space Research Organisation(I SR O)has announced that India has successfully achieved space
docking, becoming the _____________ country in the world to do so.
A. Fourth
B. Fifth
C. Sixth
D. Third
Answer: A. Fourth
●
Other three countries—Russia, the United States, and China
Q) Recently,Centre for Development of Telematics(C-D OT)has signed an agreement with which of the following
institutes for the development of "Optical Transceiver Chipset for High-Bandwidth 6 G Wireless Links”?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Patna
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Kanpur
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madras
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
Answer: D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
Q) Recently, the Future Minerals Forum(F MF) 2025, which brings together representatives from the mining industry of
over 85 countries to address critical challenges in the mineral sector, was inaugurated at which of the following locations?
A. Cairo, Egypt
B. Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
C. Muscat, Oman
D. Dubai, United Arab Emirates(U AE)
Answer: B. Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
●
About Future Minerals Forum(F MF):
○
The Future Minerals Forumisaninternationalannualforumfocusedonthemineralsandmining
industry based in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
○
It was foundedon 21 October 2021by the Saudiministry of industry and mineral resources.
○
Thefirstsummitwasheldfrom11to13 January2022inthe King Abdulaziz Conference Centerin
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
○
The 3rd summit took place from 9 to 11 January 2024.
Q) Recently,Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited(B HE L)has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with which
of the following companies to explore in the New and Renewable Energy business, including Fuel Cell, Electrolyser, and
Battery Energy Storage System-based Projects?
A. N TP C Limited
B. Reliance Industries Limited
C. Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited(O NG C)
D. Indian Oil Corporation Limited(I OC L)
Answer: C. Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited(O NG C)
●
About National Green Hydrogen Mission:
○
Launch Date:4th January 2023
○
Outlay:₹ 19,744 crore
○
Nodal Ministry:Ministry of New and Renewable Energy
○
Objective:Tomake Indiaa Global Hubforproduction,usageandexportof Green Hydrogenandits
derivatives, by targeting production of 5 M MT per annum of Green Hydrogen by 2030.
Q) Recently,Financial Intelligence Unit(F IU-I ND)and _____________ have signed a Memorandum of Understanding
(Mo U) as part of continued coordinated efforts in effective implementation of requirements of the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act and Rules framed thereunder in New Delhi.
A. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India(I RD AI)B. Securities and Exchange Board of India(S EB I)
C. National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development(N AB AR D) D. National Housing Bank(N HB)
Answer: D. National Housing Bank(N HB)
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
22nd January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, how much corpus fund has been allocated under the Payment Security Mechanism
(P SM) to reduce investment risks in Renewable Energy Service Company(R ES CO)-based
grid-connected rooftop solar models under the ‘Prime Minister-Surya Ghar: Mufti Bijli Yojana(P MS GM BY)’by the
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy(M NR E)?
A. Rs 200 crore
B. Rs 100 crore
C. Rs 300 crore
D. Rs 400 crore
Answer: B. Rs 100 crore
Q) Recently,Department of Telecommunications(Do T)has introduced the ______________ mobile App to streamline
the reporting of suspected fraudulent communications.
A. Sanchar Rakshak
B. Call Suraksha
C. Sanchar Saathi
D. Suraksha Jaankari
Answer: C. Sanchar Saathi
Q) Recently, the Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs has launched the toolkit for9th editionof Swachh
Survekshan(S S), the world’s largest urban cleanlinesssurvey, in its new avatar–simpler, sharper, systematic and
all-inclusive. For the year 2024, a special category ‘______________’ has been introduced creating a separate league of
cities excelling in cleanliness.
A. Swachhata Champions League
B. Swachh Iconic Cities
C. Super Swachh League
D. Swachh Excellence Cities
Answer: C. Super Swachh League
Q) Recently, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs(C CE A), has approved the revival plan for Rashtriya Ispat
Nigam Ltd.(R IN L)for a total of ____________.
A. Rs 10,223 crores
B. Rs 13,145 crores
C. Rs 11,440 crores
D. Rs 15,234 crores
Answer: C. Rs 11,440 crores
Q) According to the World Employment and Social Outlook:Trends 2025 report, around 402.4 million jobs weremissing
in 2024, an increase of around 2.3 million from the previous year. This report has been released by which of the following
organisations?
A. International Monetary Fund(I MF)
B. World Bank
C. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development(O EC D)
D. International Labour Organization(I LO)
Answer: D. International Labour Organization(I LO)
Q) Recently, China has successfully launched the first indigenous Electro-Optical(E O-1) satellite,P RS C-E O1,of which
of the following countries from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center?
A. Pakistan
B. Iran
C. Afghanistan
D. Bangladesh
Answer: A. Pakistan
Q) Recently, the iconic‘Musi River Historic Buildings’has been put on the 2025 World Monuments Watch, as
announced by the New York-based World Monuments Fund(W MF). The Musi River Historic Buildings are located in
which of the following places?
A. Bengaluru
B. Hyderabad
C. Chennai
D. Ahmedabad
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: B. Hyderabad
●
2025 World Monuments Watch Sites
○
Monasteries of the Drino Valley, Albania
○
Cinema Studio Namibe, Angola
○
Qhapaq Ñan, Andean Road System, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru
○
Buddhist Grottoes of Maijishan and Yungang, China
○
Swahili Coast Heritage Sites, Comoros, Kenya, Mozambique, Tanzania
○
Chapel of the Sorbonne, France
○
Serifos Historic Mining Landscape, Greece
○
Bhuj Historic Water Systems,India-Ingeniouswatermanagementsystemshavefallenoutofusein
favorofmoderninfrastructure—butas India'swatercrisisdeepens,revitalizingthisheritagetechnology
could foster resource security.
○
Musi River Historic Buildings, India - Hyderabad’s Musi River corridor, rich in history, faces
mounting challenges from pollution—butasthecitypursuesitsrevitalization,heritagecanprovidea
sense of continuity and other community benefits.
○
Noto Peninsula Heritage Sites, Japan
○
Erdene Zuu Buddhist Monastery, Mongolia
○
Jewish Heritage of Debdou, Morocco
○
Chief Ogiamien’s House, Nigeria
○
Gaza Historic Urban Fabric, Palestine
○
Waru Waru Agricultural Fields, Peru
○
Terracotta Sculptures of Alcobaça Monastery, Portugal
○
Ruins of Old Belchite, Spain
○
Water Reservoirs of the Tunis Medina, Tunisia
○
Historic City of Antakya, Türkiye
○
Kyiv Teacher’s House, Ukraine
○
Belfast Assembly Rooms, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom
○
The Great Trading Path, United States
○
Historic Lighthouses of Maine, United States
○
Barotse Floodplain Cultural Landscape, Zambia
○
The Moon-Asaneweraofspaceexplorationdawns,internationalcollaborationisrequiredtoprotect
thephysicalremnantsofearly Moonlandingsandpreservetheseenduringsymbolsofcollectivehuman
achievement.
Q) Recently, the indigenously designed and built guided missile destroyer I NS Mumbai has arrived at Jakarta, Indonesia
to participate in fourth edition of Multinational Exercise L A P ER OU SE. The 2025 edition of the La Perouseexercise is
being headed by which of the following countries?
A. Japan
B. Germany
C. France
D. Russia
Answer: C. France
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has become theninth partner country of B RI CS?
A. Nigeria
B. Croatia
C. Egypt
D. Kenya
Answer: A. Nigeria
●
B RI CS
○
B RI CS is an acronym for the grouping of the world’s leadingemergingeconomies,namely Brazil,
Russia, India, China, and South Africa.
○
In 2001, the British Economist Jim O’Neill coined the term B RI C to describe the four emerging
economies of Brazil, Russia, India, and China.
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
○
The grouping wasformalizedduring thefirst meetingof BR IC Foreign Ministersin2006.
○
South Africawasinvitedtojoin BR ICin December2010,afterwhichthegroupadoptedtheacronym
B RI CS.
○
Thefirst BR IC Summitwasheldin Russia’s Yekaterinburgin2009.Itwasagreedtoexpand BR IC
into BR IC Swiththeinclusionof South Africaatthe BR IC Foreign Ministers’meetingin New Yorkin
2010.
○
Duringthe15th BR IC SSummitheldin2023,Argentina,Egypt,Ethiopia,Iran,Saudi Arabiaand
the United Arab Emirates(U AE)were invited to becomemembers of B RI CS.
■
The 5 countries officiallybecame the new full memberof B RI CS blocon1st January 2024.
○
The16th B RI CS Summitwas being heldunder Russia’schairmanship in Kazan in 2024.
Q) Recently, Union Minister of State(Independent Charge) for Science and Technology, Dr. Jitendra Singh has
inaugurated India’s first-of-its-kind C SI R Mega "Innovation Complex"at which of the following places?
A. Pune
B. Bhopal
C. Mumbai
D. Chennai
Answer: C. Mumbai
Q) Recently,National Skill Development Corporation(N SD C)has partnered with _______________ to launchsolar
community hubs for bridging skill gaps and empowering underserved communities.
A. Lenovo
B. Dell Technologies
C. Alienware
D. Apple
Answer: B. Dell Technologies
Q) Recently, which of the following states has unveiled its firstofficialstate emblemafter
approval from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs(M HA)?
A. Tripura
B. Manipur
C. Arunachal Pradesh
D. Sikkim
Answer: A. Tripura
Q) In a significant move to bolster the Fin Tech sector, the Government of Odisha’s Electronics and I T Department has
recently partnered with Singapore’s Global Finance & Technology Network(G FT N) to establish a Global Competency
Centreat which of the following locations?
A. Bhadrak
B. Rourkela
C. Bhubaneswar
D. Cuttack
Answer: C. Bhubaneswar
Q) Recently, which of the following states has approvedsolar power projectsworth around Rs 10,000 croreto achieve the
state’s renewable energy capacity of 22,000 megawatt(Mw)?
A. Uttar Pradesh
B. Madhya Pradesh
C. Rajasthan
D. Bihar
Answer: A. Uttar Pradesh
Q) Recently, Lotus Wireless Technologies(L WT), India in partnership ____________ has pioneered the development of
India’s first commercial-scale Medium Voltage Solid-State Transformer(S ST).
A. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, United States
B. Brandon University, Canada
C. University of Tübingen, Germany
D. A IT Austrian Institute of Technology
Answer: D. A IT Austrian Institute of Technology
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, who among the following was honored with the Gates-Cambridge Impact Prize 2025by the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation at Cambridge, United Kingdom?
A. Dr. Ritu Kulshreshtha
B. Prof. Urbasi Sinha
C. Prof. Surender Singh
D. Dr. Rakesh Kumar
Answer: B. Prof. Urbasi Sinha
Q) Recently, India has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with which of the following countries to enhance
cooperation and information sharing oncyber threatintelligence and digital forensicsin criminal investigations?
A. Germany
B. Australia
C. United States of America(U SA)
D. South Korea
Answer: C. United States of America(U SA)
Q) Recently, Union Home Minister has attended the ____________ Raising Day ceremony of the National Disaster
Response Force(N DR F)as the Chief Guest in Vijayawada,Andhra Pradesh.
A. 10th
B. 20th
C. 25th
D. 50th
Answer: B. 20th
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
23rd January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, ____________ has announced the launch of its Internet Governance Internship and
Capacity Building Schemeto build awareness and develop expertise in internet governance(I G)
among Indian citizens.
A. Software Technology Parks of India(S TP I)
B. Data Security Council of India(D SC I)
C. National Internet Exchange of India(N IX I)
D. Indian Computer Emergency Response Team(C ER T-In)
Answer: C. National Internet Exchange of India(N IX I)
Q) Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has distributed over 65 lakh property cards under SV AM IT VA(Survey of
Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas) Schemeto property owners in over 50000 villages
in more than 230 districts across 10 States and 2 Union territories. The S VA MI TV A Scheme is implemented by which of
the following ministries?
A. Ministry of Panchayati Raj
B. Ministry of Rural Development
C. Ministry of Earth Sciences
D. Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
Answer: A. Ministry of Panchayati Raj
Q) Recently,World Meteorological Organization(W MO)has launched the operational phase of its ‘____________’ that
will help change the way nations share Earth system data.
A. W MO Global Climate Information 2.0(W GC I 2.0)
B. W MO Data Exchange Program 2.0(W DE P 2.0)
C. W MO Earth System Grid 2.0(W ES G 2.0)
D. W MO Information System 2.0(W IS 2.0)
Answer: D. W MO Information System 2.0(W IS 2.0)
Q) Recently,Rubber Boardhas launched a web-based platform which has been designed to connect growers of untapped
rubber holdings with interested adopters to maximise plantation productivity. What is the name of this platform?
A. I NR Rubber NX T
B. I NR Tap Root
C. I NR Konnect
D. I NR Grow Smart
Answer: C. I NR Konnect
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as the Director General(D G) of the Central Reserve Police
Force(C RP F)?
A. Piyush Anand
B. Gyanendra Pratap Singh
C. Daljit Singh Chaudhary
D. Sanjay Kumar
Answer: B. Gyanendra Pratap Singh
Q) Recently, _____________ in its World Economic Outlook report, retained its growth projection for India at 6.5 per
cent for F Y26 and F Y27.
A. World Bank
B. Asian Development Bank(A DB)
C. International Monetary Fund(I MF)
D. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development(O EC D)
Answer: C. International Monetary Fund(I MF)
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) As per recent information, United Nations will observe 2025 as the International Year of Glaciers’ Preservation, with
_____________ marked annually as World Day for Glaciersstarting in 2025.
A. 22nd February
B. 21st March
C. 1st April
D. 21st May
Answer: B. 21st March
Q) As per recently released United Nations Children's Fund(U NI CE F) report "Prospects for Children in 2025: Building
Resilient Systems for Children’s Futures", in 2023, over _____________ children, or more than one in six globally, lived
in conflict zones.
A. 154 million
B. 223 million
C. 313 million
D. 473 million
Answer: D. 473 million
Q) Recently,India’s first flying taxi prototypehas been unveiled at the ‘Bharat Mobility Global Expo 2025’. What is its
name?
A. Shunya
B. Soorya
C. Bhaskar
D. Udaan
Answer: A. Shunya
Q) According to the P HD Chamber of Commerce and Industry(P HD CC I, New Delhi)’s latest report titled‘Economic
Outlook 2025’, India is set to become the World’s 4th largest economy by 2026, surpassing Japan. As per this report,
what is the projected growth rate of India’s Gross Domestic Product(G DP) for the Financial Year 2024-25(F Y25)?
A. 6.2%
B. 6.5%
C. 6.8%
D. 7.4%
Answer: C. 6.8%
Q) Recently,Uttarakhand governmenthas collaborated with which of the following countries to explore the vast
geothermal resources of Uttarakhand, paving the way for sustainable energy solutions?
A. Iceland
B. New Zealand
C. Germany
D. Japan
Answer: A. Iceland
Q) Recently,Union Cabinethas approved the refarming of ____________ of spectrum from various government
ministries for the deployment of 5 G and future 6 G services.
A. 467 megahertz(M Hz)
B. 590 megahertz(M Hz)
C. 687 megahertz(M Hz)
D. 783 megahertz(M Hz)
Answer: C. 687 megahertz(M Hz)
Q) As per recent information, who among the following has authored the book titled“The World After
Gaza”?
A. Tariq Ali
B. Jacqueline Rose
C. Pankaj Mishra
D. Arundhati Roy
Answer: C. Pankaj Mishra
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Indian Space Research Organisation(I SR O)has successfully germinated Lobia(black-eyed pea) seeds in
space as part of its ‘C RO PS’ Module. What does the letter ‘C’ stand for in the acronym “C RO PS”?
A. Compact
B. Cosmic
C. Cultivation
D. Climate
Answer: A. Compact
●
C RO PS stands for Compact Research Module for Orbital Plant Studies
Q) Recently,Trajan 155 mm towed artillery gun systemhas bagged an export order from
Armenia. The gun is jointly developed by K ND S France(Versailles, France) and which of
the following companies?
A. Mahindra Defence Systems
B. Bharat Forge Limited
C. Tata Advanced Systems Limited
D. Larsen & Toubro(L&T)
Answer: D. Larsen & Toubro(L&T)
Q) Recently, Indian men’s and women’s teams won the Kho Kho World Cup 2025titles by defeating which of the
following countries in their respective finals at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, New Delhi?
A. Malaysia
B. Nepal
C. Sri Lanka
D. Bhutan
Answer: B. Nepal
Q) Recently, four planets in our solar system namely Venus, Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars have created a rare phenomenon
known as‘planet parade’. What does the term ‘planet parade’ refer to?
A. A rare event when planets reflect sunlight in a specific pattern
B. A phenomenon where planets travel through the same region of the sky simultaneously
C. A celestial occurrence when planets appear to move in reverse direction
D. A situation when several planets in solar system are visible in the night sky at the same time
Answer: D. A situation when several planets in solar system are visible in the night sky at the same time
Q) Recently, satellite images have revealed a near-complete airstrip on Abd al-Kuri Island. This island is associated with
which of the following countries?
A. United Arab Emirates(U AE)
B. Oman
C. Saudi Arabia
D. Yemen
Answer: D. Yemen
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
24th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, ____________ has developed‘Entity Locker’, a cutting-edge digital platform designed
to transform the management and verification of business/organisation documents.
A. National Informatics Centre(N IC)
B. National e Governance Division(Ne GD)
C. Centre for Development of Advanced Computing(C-D AC)
D.Indian Computer Emergency Response Team(C ER T-In)
Answer: B. National e Governance Division(Ne GD)
Q) Recently, Government has approved investment proposals worth Rs 3,516 crore from 24 companies in the third round
of applications for the production linked incentive(P LI) scheme for white goods, including air conditioners(A Cs) and
light-emitting diodes(L EDs).P LI Scheme for White Goods(Acs and L ED lights)will be implemented up to
_______________.
A. F Y 2028-29
B. F Y 2029-30
C. F Y 2030-31
D. F Y 2032-33
Answer: A. F Y 2028-29
Q) Recently, Indian Council of Agriculture Research(I CA R, New Delhi) has renamed which of the following institutes as
National Institute for Research on Commercial Agriculture(N IR CA)?
A. Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Trivandrum
B. Central Tobacco Research Institute, Rajahmundry
C. Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal
D. Central Research Institute of Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad
Answer: B. Central Tobacco Research Institute, Rajahmundry
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has completed the construction of the Tianshan Shengli Tunnel, the world’s
longest expressway tunnel?
A. Thailand
B. Laos
C. China
D. Singapore
Answer: C. China
Q) As per recent information, the disbursal of small business loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana(P MM Y)
reached an all-time high at ₹3.39 lakh crore in the third quarter of the current financial year that ended December 2024.
Under the aegis of P MM Y, M UD RA offers loans from ₹5 lakh to ₹10 lakh under which of the following categories?
A. Shishu
B. Tarun
C. Kishore
D. Tarun Plus
Answer: B. Tarun
Q) As per recently released research“2025 Edelman Trust Barometer”by the Edelman Trust Institute(New York), India
has slipped to _____________ slot when it comes to people's trust in the government, businesses, media and N GOs,
while the low-income population is far less trusting than their richer counterparts.
A. Third
B. Fourth
C. Fifth
D. Sixth
Answer: A. Third
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Reserve Bank of India(R BI)has set up a new standing external advisory committee, which will evaluate
applications for universal banks and small finance banks(S FBs). Who among the following serves as the chairperson of
the committee?
A. B.P. Kanungo
B. Mahesh Kumar Jain
C. Subir Gokarn
D. Anand Sinha
Answer: B. Mahesh Kumar Jain
●
Thecommitteeheadedbyformer RB Ideputygovernor Mahesh Kumar Jainasthechairperson,hasfive
members.
●
Othermembersinclude Revathy Iyer,director,centralboard,R BI;Parvathy VSundaram,formerexecutive
director,R BI;Hemant GContractor,former MD,State Bankof India,andformer Chairman,Pension Fund
Regulatory and Development Authority; and N. S. Kannan, former M D & C EO, I CI CI Prudential Life
Insurance.
●
The committee’s tenure will be forthree years.
●
Thesecretarial supportto the committee would be provided by RB I’s Department of Regulation.
●
The firstcommitteewasformedin March2021andwasheadedbyformer Deputy Governor Shyamala
Gopinathforthree years.
○
The previous Standing External Advisory Committee(S EA C) was formed in March 2021, and
chairedby Shyamala Gopinath,aformer RB IDeputy Governor.Also,both Revathy Iyerand Hemant
G Contractor,whocurrentlyserveonthenewlyformedcommittee,werealsomembersoftheprevious
one.
Q) Recently, facilities of Hindustan Unilever Limited(H UL) and which of the following companies have joined World
Economic Forum’s(W EF) Global Lighthouse Network(G LN)for driving manufacturing transformation through
innovation?
A. Kesoram Industries Limited
B. Apollo Tyres Limited
C. C EA T Limited
D. Balkrishna Industries Limited
Answer: C. C EA T Limited
●
Cologny,Switzerlandbased World Economic Forum(W EF)announcedthat Sriperumbudur(Kanchipuram
district,Tamil Nadu)based CE AT Limited(Mumbai)and Tinsukia(Assam)basedfacility(Doomdoomasite)
of Hindustan Unilever Limited(H UL,Mumbai),the Fast-Moving Consumer Goods(F MC G)Companyhave
joined its Global Lighthouse Network(G LN)fordriving manufacturing transformationthrough innovation.
●
The Doomdooma factory(D DF) will become Unilever’s third plant in South Asiatoreceivethishonour.
Previously, the HU L’s Dapada site receivedthis recognition in 2022, followed by the Sonepat site in 2023.
●
H ULstandsoutastheonlycompanyin India,withthreefactoriesinthecountryearningthe Advanced4 IR
End-to-End value chain Lighthouse recognition.
●
Other15newmembersincludecompaniesfromthe United Arab Emirates(U AE),China,Germany,Malaysia,
Saudi Arabia,the United Kingdom(U K),the United Statesof America(U SA),and Morocco(Hometothefirst
Lighthouse site in Africa).
●
Thelatestcohortof Lighthouseshasobservedanaverage53percentboostinlabourproductivityand26per
centreductioninconversioncostsattributedtovariousdigitalsolutionssuchas AI,machinelearning,advanced
analytics and more
Q) Recently, Centre has reconstituted the society and Executive Council of the Prime Ministers’ Museum and Library
(P MM L)with several new names being added. Who among the following has been reappointed as the chairperson for
another five-year term?
A. Nripendra Mishra
B. Saket Misra
C. Ajit Doval
D. Pradeep Kumar Sinha
Answer: A. Nripendra Mishra
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
●
Former Principal Secretarytothe Prime Minister,Nripendra Mishra,hasbeenreappointedasthechairperson
foranother five-year term.
●
Theexecutivecouncil,previouslycomprising29members,hasbeenexpandedtoinclude34members.This
expansion aims to bringdiverse expertiseandperspectivesto the institution.
●
Therehavebeenseveralnewentrantsatthepremierinstitution’ssociety—includingformer Union Minister
Smriti Irani, former N IT I Aayog Vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar, retired Army General Syed Ata Hasnain,
filmmaker Shekhar Kapurand Sanskar Bharati’s Vasudev Kamath.
●
Othernewmembersare Sanjeev Sanyal,amemberoftheeconomicadvisorycounciltothe Prime Minister;
educationist Chamu Krishna Shastry, who was a chief contributor in the formulation of the controversial
National Education Policy; archaeologist K K Mohammad, a former regionaldirectorofthe Archaeological
Surveyof India,whowaspartofthe Babri Masjidexcavationteamin1976,aswellasarcheologist BR Mani,
who currently heads the National Museum
●
Prime Minister Narendra Modiisthepresidentof NM MLsocietyand Defence Minister Rajnath Singhis
the vice-president.
●
Raghvendra Tanwar, chairperson of the Indian Council of Historical Research, and Sachidanand Joshi,
chairperson of the I GN CA and lyricist Prasoon Joshiare also part of the society.
●
Somenotablefigureswhohavenotbeenreappointedtothenewcouncilincludeformer Union Minister Anurag
Thakur, University Grants Commission Chairman Mamidala Jagadesh Kumar;Presidentof Indira Gandhi
National Centre for the Arts Ram Bahadur Rai,and journalist Rajat Sharma.
●
Rizwan Kadri,aresearcherknownforhisinvolvementinrecentdiscussionssurroundingthereturnof Nehru
papers, has retained his position in the organisation’s society.
●
Knownearlierasthe Nehru Memorial Museum&Library Society,themuseumwasrenamedasthe Prime
Ministers’ Museum and Library Societyin June 2023.
Q) Recently, Republican leader Donald John Trumptook oath as the 47th president of the United States. Who among the
following took oath as the 50th Vice President?
A. Michael Richard Pence
B. Albert Arnold Gore Jr.
C. J D Vance(James David Vance)
D. Richard Bruce Cheney
Answer: C. J D Vance(James David Vance)
Q) Recently, the government of which of the following states has formed a committee to submit recommendations for
rolling out the state's Artificial Intelligence(A I) policy, making it the first state in India to have a dedicated A I policy?
A. Karnataka
B. Maharashtra
C. Tamil Nadu
D. Telangana
Answer: B. Maharashtra
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has signed an agreement with Japan Bank for International Cooperation
(J BI C, Tokyo)for 120 billion Japanese Yen(J PY) or Rs.6600 crore loan to support Renewable Energy(R E) projects in
India?
A. N TP C Limited
B. R EC Limited
C. Power Finance Corporation Limited(P FC)
D. N HP C Limited
Answer: C. Power Finance Corporation Limited(P FC)
Q) Recently, the foundation stone for a Model Resilient Villagewas laid, at Sil/Sunani in Solan, Himachal Pradesh. The
project is a collaborative effort by _____________, Government of Himachal Pradesh, Bal Raksha Bharat, and Zee
Entertainment, aims to redevelop the village and prepare it for future resilience through a comprehensive redevelopment
plan.
A. Indian Council of Agricultural Research(I CA R)
B. National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development(N AB AR D)
C. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research(C SI R)
D. National Disaster Management Authority(N DM A)
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research(C SI R)
Q) Recently, Ministry of Mines has organized‘3rd National Mining Ministers’ Conference’in collaboration with which
of the following states to discuss ways to make India self-sufficient in the mineral sector?
A. Odisha
B. Madhya Pradesh
C. Andhra Pradesh
D. Jharkhand
Answer: A. Odisha
Q) Recently,C SI R-National Aerospace Laboratories(N AL, Bengaluru)has signed an Mo U with which of the following
companies to qualify innovative aerospike engine technology for future space missions?
A. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited(H AL)
B. Larsen & Toubro(L&T)
C. T AT A Advanced Systems Limited
D. Space Fields
Answer: D. Space Fields
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has signed a loan agreement worth Rs 31,802 crore with a consortium of
banks led by State Bank of India(S BI), with an aim to establish apetrochemical complex?
A. Indian Oil Corporation Limited(I OC L)
B. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited(B PC L)
C. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited(H PC L)
D. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation(O NG C) Limited
Answer: B. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited(B PC L)
Q) Recently,“X XV II(27th) International Congress on Glass(I CG), 2025”has been inaugurated at the Biswa Bangla
Convention Centre(Kolkata). The I CG 2025 is being organised by which of the following institutes?
A. C SI R-Central Building Research Institute(C SI R-C BR I)
B. C SI R-Central Scientific Instruments Organisation(C SI R-C SI O)
C. C SI R-Central Glass and Ceramic Research Institute(C SI R-C GC RI)
D. C SI R-Advanced Materials and Processes Research
Institute(C SI R-A MP RI)
Answer: C. C SI R-Central Glass and Ceramic Research Institute(C SI R-C GC RI)
●
The theme of I CG 2025 Congress is “Glass: A Smart and Indispensable Material for Sustainable Society”
Q) Recently, a demand has been made to include Roman script for Kokborok(a Sino-Tibetan language) in textbooks and
official work. Kokborok is the mother tongue of Borok people and tribal communities in which of the following states?
A. Manipur
B. Mizoram
C. Sikkim
D. Tripura
Answer: D. Tripura
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
25th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Department of Commerce has introduced the‘Diamond Imprest Authorization(D IA)
Scheme’. All Diamond exporters holding Two Star Export House status and above and having
achieved a minimum export performance of ______________ in Cut & Polished Diamonds each year for the past three
financial years, are eligible for availing the benefit under this scheme.
A. U S $10 Million
B. U S $15 Million
C. U S $25 Million
D. U S $35 Million
Answer: B. U S $15 Million
Q) Recently, which of the following numbering series has the Reserve Bank of India(R BI)mandated banks to use to call
customers for transactional purposes to prevent financial fraud?
A. 1400xx
B. 1500xx
C. 1600xx
D. 1800xx
Answer: C. 1600xx
●
"Undertake transactional / service calls only using '1600xx' numbering series, when operationalised;
undertake promotional voice calls only through phone numbers using'140xx'numbering series;
Q) Recently, the United States Bureau of Industry and Security(B IS)has removed 3 prominent Indian nuclear entities
from its restrictive Entity List with an aim to strengthen bilateral ties between India and U SA and also focus on
promoting advanced energy cooperation. Identify which one is N OT among them?
A. Bhabha Atomic Research Centre(B AR C), Mumbai
B. Indira Gandhi Atomic Research Centre(I GC AR), Kalpakkam
C. Indian Rare Earths(I RE) Limited, Mumbai
D. Institute of Physics(I OP), Bhubaneswar
Answer: D. Institute of Physics(I OP), Bhubaneswar
Q) Recently,Telecom departmenthas extended additional charge of B SN L(Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited) and M TN L
(Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited) Chairman and Managing Director(C MD) given to _____________ for three
months(till April 14, 2025).
A. Gaurav Dwivedi
B. Navneet Kumar Sehgal
C. Ravi A Robert Jerard
D. Anurag Jain
Answer: C. Ravi A Robert Jerard
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,“Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao”(B BB P), the flagship scheme of the Indian government aims to address
declining child sex ratios, prevent gender-biased sex-selective practices, and promote the survival, education, and
empowerment of the girl child, has marked its ______________ anniversary.
A. 8th
B. 10th
C. 12th
D. 14th
Answer: B. 10th
●
Beti Bachao Beti Padhao(B BB P)schemewaslaunchedon January22,2015asacollaborativeeffortbythe
Ministry of Women&Child Developmentwiththe Ministryof Education,and Ministryof Healthand
Family Welfare.
●
Beti Bachao Beti Padhaowaslaunchedbythe Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiin Panipat,Haryana,asa
response to thecritical issue of gender imbalance and the declining Child Sex Ratio(C SR) in India.
●
B BB Pisacentrallysponsoredschemewith100%fundingbythe Central Governmentinallthedistrictsof
the country under Sambal vertical of Mission Shakti.
●
Ministryof Womenand Child Developmentmonitorstheprogressoftheoverallactivitiesunder BB BPand
reviews status of achievement of objectives.
Q) According to recent information, which of the following states is set to become the first in India to implement the
Uniform Civil Code(U CC), as the state government has approved the U CC rules manual?
A. Uttar Pradesh
B. Assam
C. Uttarakhand
D. Himachal Pradesh
Answer: C. Uttarakhand
Q) Recently, Northeastern States of Manipur, Meghalaya, and Tripurahas celebrated their Statehood Day on which of the
following dates?
A. January 18
B. January 21
C. January 22
D. January 25
Answer: B. January 21
●
53rd Statehood Day
Q) Recently, a Fiscal Support Agreement(F SA)was signed by India Semiconductor Mission(I SM), C G Power and
Industrial Solutions Ltd. and _____________ to strengthen its semiconductor manufacturing through Outsourced
Semiconductor Assembly and Testing(O SA T) facility in Sanand, Gujarat.
A. C G Semi Pvt. Limited
B. Mos Chip Technologies Pvt. Limited
C. S PE L Semiconductor Limited
D. Chiplogic Technologies Limited
Answer: A. C G Semi Pvt. Limited
Q) Recently, Indian Space Research Organisation(I SR O) announced that the team of research scientists had successfully
completed the demonstration of the restart of the Vikas Liquid Engines. Vikas Engine(named in honour of Vikram
Ambalal Sarabhai) was conceived and developed by ______________.
A. Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre(L PS C)
B. Satish Dhawan Space Centre(S DS C) S HA R
C. Defence Electronics Research Laboratory(D LR L)
D. Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre(V SS C)
Answer: A. Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre(L PS C)
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,“Virgin coconut oil”from which of the following states/union territories has received the prestigious
"Geographical Indication(G I) tag"?
A. Odisha
B. Kerala
C. Andaman and Nicobar Islands
D. Puducherry
Answer: C. Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Q) Recently, O TE K, a startup in consumer electronics and computer accessories, unveiled India's first A I-integrated
mousedesigned to enhance productivity and enable effortless multitasking. What is the name of this A I-integrated
mouse?
A. A M20
B. B M09
C. M B13
D. C D93
Answer: B. B M09
Q) Recently,Startup Policy Forum(S PF), with the support of Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade
(D PI IT), and Startup India has launched “______________” with aim to bridge the vision of India's next-generation
nation builders with the mission of policymakers and regulators.
A. Startup Baithak
B. Startup Samvaad
C. Startup Sangam
D. Startup Parichay
Answer: A. Startup Baithak
Q) Recently, which of the following state’s High Court has launched a digital initiative‘T WA RI T’(Transmission of
Warrants, Summons, and Reports by Information Technology)for the transmission of warrants and summons, enabling
judges to monitor the case status online?
A. Rajasthan
B. Gujarat
C. Madhya Pradesh
D. Uttar Pradesh
Answer: C. Madhya Pradesh
Q) Recently, which of the following states has celebrated the “Pangsau Pass International Festival(P PI F)”?
A. Arunachal Pradesh
B. Nagaland
C. Manipur
D. Mizoram
Answer: A. Arunachal Pradesh
Q) Recently, the three-day Flamingo Festival 2025has been concluded in which of the following states?
A. Kerala
B. Andhra Pradesh
C. Tamil Nadu
D. West Bengal
Answer: B. Andhra Pradesh
Q) Recently, Russia has signed a“treaty on Comprehensive Strategic Partnership”with which of the following countries
with an aim to expand economic cooperation, and strengthen military & political partnerships?
A. Iran
B. India
C. Brazil
D. Pakistan
Answer: A. Iran
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently,Indian Army’s Motorcycle Rider Display Team, known as the “____________” set a new world record by
creating the highest human pyramid on moving motorcycles.
A. Thunder Riders
B. Iron Wolves
C. Daredevils
D. Rapid Riders
Answer: C. Daredevils
Q) As per recent information, who among the following is author of Dharmanomics: An Indigenous and
Sustainable Economic Model?
A. Raghuram Rajan
B. N. R. Narayana Murthy
C. Amartya Sen
D. Sriram Balasubramanian
Answer: D. Sriram Balasubramanian
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
26th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(C DS CO) has approved 2nd Living drug,
___________, a Chimeric Antigen Receptor(C AR) T-cell therapyfor treating blood cancer.
A. Tecartus
B. Qartemi
C. Yescarta
D. Kymriah
Answer: B. Qartemi
Q) Recently, Ministry of Tribal Affairs(Mo TA), in collaboration with Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
(Mo H&F W), had organised the ‘National Tribal Health Conclave 2025’ at which of the following locations?
A. Chennai
B. Mumbai
C. New Delhi
D. Bengaluru
Answer: C. New Delhi
Q) Recently, India AI Mission has shortlisted 20 applicants against the India AI Cyberguard A I Hackathonfor stage 2
floated under the India AI Application Development Initiative. India AI in collaboration with _____________ has
announced the India AI Cyber Guard A I Hackathon.
A. National Cyber Security Research Council(N CS RC)
B. Data Security Council of India(D SC I)
C. Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre(I4 C)
D. National Informatics Centre(N IC)
Answer: C. Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre(I4 C)
●
India AI,an Independent Business Division(I BD)underthe Digital India Corporation(D IC)ofthe Ministry
of Electronics and I T(Meit Y),serves as theimplementation agencyof the India AI Mission.
●
Tofurthertheseambitions,India AIand Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre(I4 C)(establishedbythe
Ministry of Home Affairs) has announced the India AI Cyber Guard A I Hackathon.
○
Thiscollaborationaimstoleverage AItodriveefficienciesintheprevention,detection,investigation,
and prosecution of cybercrime, thereby enhancing citizen welfare.
○
The I4 C manages the National Cybercrime Report Portal(N CR P), providing a comprehensive
framework for Law Enforcement Agencies(L EAs)to tackle cybercrime effectively.
●
This strategic initiative seeks to utilize advanced technologies, particularly AI,toenhancecybersecurityand
address theescalating threat of cyber fraud and crimes.
●
The Hackathoninvitesparticipationfrom Indianinnovators,startups,non-profits,students,academic/R&D
organizations, andcompanies.
●
Participants will have the opportunity to design and implement sophisticated A I models that can
significantlyenhancetheeffectivenessofcybersecuritymeasuresandcombatthegrowingsophisticationof
cybercrime.
Q) Recently, U NE SC O Regional Office for South Asia(New Delhi), in collaboration with Ministry of Electronics and
Information Technology(Meit Y), has organized a two-day stakeholder consultation on AI Readiness Assessment
Methodology(R AM)in India. Which of the following law firm was the implementing partner for the consultation?
A. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas
B. Phoenix Legal
C. Ikigai Law
D. Luthra & Luthra
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. Ikigai Law
Q) As per recently released“Brand Finance I T services 2025 ranking report”, India has
secured the second position, contributing 36 per cent of the total brand value, a significant
achievement fuelled by a 14 per cent increase in brand value. Which of the following countries
has topped the rankings?
A. China
B. United States
C. Canada
D. Australia
Answer: B. United States
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as the Additional Director General(A DG) of the Border
Security Force(B SF)?
A. Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal
B. S N Pradhan
C. Sanjay Kumar
D. Prakash Mishra
Answer: A. Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal
Q) Recently, who among the following has secured the top position in the inaugural edition of the'H SB C Hurun Global
Indians List’,which was published by H SB C(Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation) in collaboration with
Hurun India?
A. Sanjiv Lamba
B. Sundar Pichai
C. Satya Nadella
D. Neal Mohan
Answer: C. Satya Nadella
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) According to the recently released Forbes’ World’s Billionaires List for 2025, the United States leads with a record
813 billionaires, followed by China with 473 billionaires. What is India’s rank in this list?
A. 3rd
B. 4th
C. 5th
D. 6th
Answer: A. 3rd
Q) Recently, which of the following Laboratories has achieved a historic milestone by successfully conducting a ground
test of an Active Cooled Scramjet Combustorfor 120 seconds, marking a first for India?
A. Defence Research & Development Laboratory(D RD L)
B. Defence Electronics Application Laboratory(D EA L)
C. Defence Electronics Research Laboratory(D LR L)
D. Defence Materials and Stores Research and
Development Establishment(D MS RD E)
Answer: A. Defence Research & Development Laboratory(D RD L)
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has launched"Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Bhumihin Krishi Majdur
Kalyan Yojana"to provide financial assistance and support to landless agricultural labourers in the state?
A. Uttar Pradesh
B. Madhya Pradesh
C. Chhattisgarh
D. Rajasthan
Answer: C. Chhattisgarh
Q) Recently, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has launched ‘_____________’, one of theworld’s fastest weather
alert systems, which is designed to enhance rescue and rehabilitation efforts during extreme weather events driven by
climate change.
A. Vayu Mitra M
B. Ka Wa CHa M
C. Kaal Raksha M
D. Vayu Ka Wa CH
Answer: B. Ka Wa CHa M
●
‘Ka Wa CHa M’ stands for Kerala Warnings Crisis and Hazards Management System
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Ministry of Defence(Mo D) has signed a contract with Heavy Vehicles Factory, a unit of ______________,
for the procurement of47 Tank-72 Bridge Laying Tanks(B LT)for the Indian Army at a total cost of Rs 1,560.52 crore.
A. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited(H AL)
B. Mahindra Defence Systems Limited
C. Armoured Vehicle Nigam Limited
D. Larsen & Toubro Limited(L&T)
Answer: C. Armoured Vehicle Nigam Limited
Q) Recently,Vadhvan Port Project Limited(V PP L)has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with which of
the following companies for Liquid Jetty along with 50 acres of land at Vadhavan port under public-private partnership
(P PP) model?
A. Essar Ports Limited
B. Reliance Industries Limited
C. Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited
D. L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited
Answer: B. Reliance Industries Limited
Q) Recently, Chhattisgarh Biofuel Development Authority(C BD A) has inked an agreement with G AI L(India) and which
of the following companies for producingcompressed biogas(C BG)from urban solid waste of six municipal
corporations across the state?
A. Indian Oil Corporation Limited
B. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited
C. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation(O NG C) Limited
D. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited(B PC L)
Answer: D. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited(B PC L)
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has signed a memorandum of understanding(Mo U) with the Maharashtra
government to invest ₹3,00,000 crore across sectors in the Naxal insurgency-affected Gadchiroli district?
A. Adani Enterprises Limited
B. Aditya Birla Group
C. Tata Group
D. J SW Group
Answer: D. J SW Group
Q) As per recent information, who among the following has authored the book titled“Wild Fictions”?
A. Arundhati Roy
B. Amitav Ghosh
C. Ruskin Bond
D. Shashi Tharoor
Answer: B. Amitav Ghosh
Q) As per recent information, India is organizing the1st International Olympic Research Conference(27-30 January
2025), which will discuss financing and innovative economic models for hosting the Olympics in India. The event is
scheduled to take place in which of the following states?
A. Karnataka
B. Maharashtra
C. Gujarat
D. Odisha
Answer: C. Gujarat
●
This will help India strengthen its bid to host the2036 Olympics.
●
The event will take place at the Rashtriya Raksha University(R RU) campusin Gandhinagar.
●
Thefour-dayconference,incollaborationwiththe Union Ministryof Youth Affairsand Sports,willfeature
keynote sessions on topics such as "2036 Vision: Pathway to Become an Olympic Host," "Global Best
Practices and Comparative Analysis in Olympic City Selection and Urban Legacy,"
○
"Financingthe Future:Innovative Economic Modelsfor Hosting Olympicsin India,Insightsinto
Sustainable Fundingand Investment,"and"Greeningthe Games:Integrating Sustainabilityinto
the Indian Olympic Plan Strategies."
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Taiwan’s Ministry of National Defense(M ND) stated that the country will deploy the new surface-to-air
missile systems “National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile Systems(N AS AM S)”. N AS AM S was designed and
developed jointly by Raytheon(United States) and which of the following companies?
A. Rheinmetall A G(Germany)
B. Israel Aerospace Industries
C. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd(Japan)
D. Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace(Norway)
Answer: D. Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace(Norway)
5
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
27th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances(D AR PG) has officially
launched the scheme for the Prime Minister(P M)’s Awards for Excellence in Public Administration
2024. Under this, the award will comprise of a Trophy, Scroll and an incentive of ______________ to the awarded district
or organisation to be utilized for implementation of project/programme or bridging the gap of resources in any area of
public welfare.
A. Rs 10 lakh
B. Rs 20 lakh
C. Rs 30 lakh
D. Rs 40 lakh
Answer: B. Rs 20 lakh
Q) Recently, U S President Donald Trump announced a$500 billion artificial intelligence(A I) infrastructure initiative,
described as the largest of its kind. The venture, called "______________" brings together tech giants Open AI, Oracle
and Soft Bank to construct a vast network of data centres across the United States.
A. Nexus A I
B. A I Grid
C. Tech Guide
D. Stargate
Answer: D. Stargate
Q) Recently, which of the following institutes/centres has been selected for the Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan
Puraskar-2025in the Institutional Category, recognizing its exceptional contributions to disaster management?
A. National Institute of Oceanography(N IO), Goa
B. National Centre for Coastal Research(N CC R), Chennai
C. Indian Institute of Remote Sensing(I IR S), Dehradun
D. Indian National Centre for Ocean Information
Services(I NC OI S), Hyderabad
Answer: D. Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services(I NC OI S), Hyderabad
●
Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskarwasinstitutedtorecogniseandhonourtheinvaluable
contributionandselflessservicerenderedbyindividualsandorganisationsin Indiainthefieldofdisaster
management.
●
The award isannounced every year on January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose.
●
Theawardcarriesacashprizeof Rs51lakhandacertificateincaseofaninstitutionand Rs5lakhanda
certificate in case of an individual
●
Itisadministeredbythe National Disaster Management Authority(N DM Awascreatedbythe Ministryof
Home Affairsunder the Disaster Management Act, 2005).
Q) Recently, which of the following institutes has established Centre of Biodegradable Packagingto develop zero-waste
bioplastics?
A. Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay(I IT-B)
B. Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi(I IT-D)
C. Indian Institute of Technology, Madras(I IT-M)
D. Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur(I IT-K)
Answer: C. Indian Institute of Technology, Madras(I IT-M)
Q) Recently released report titled “Blueprint to Close the Women’s Health Gap: How to Improve Lives and Economies
for All”by World Economic Forum(W EF) estimated that addressing key women-specific health challenges could unlock
_____________ in global G DP annually by 2040.
A. $200 billion
B. $400 billion
C. $600 billion
D. $800 billion
Answer: B. $400 billion
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana(S SY), a small deposit scheme of the Government of India meant exclusively for a girl
child, has recently completed 10 years. What is the minimum deposit in Sukanya Samriddhi Account?
A. ₹ 100
B. ₹ 150
C. ₹ 250
D. ₹ 500
Answer: C. ₹ 250
●
The Sukanya Samriddhi Account(S SA)Schemeisasmalldepositschemeofthe Governmentof Indiameant
exclusivelyforagirlchild.Itwaslaunchedby Prime Minister Narendra Modion22nd January2015asapart
of Beti Bachao Beti Padhaocampaign.Theschemeismeanttomeettheeducationandmarriageexpensesofa
girl child.
●
Nodal Ministry – Ministry of Finance
●
Minimumdeposit₹ 250/-Maximumdeposit₹ 1.5 Lakh in a financial year.
●
Account can be opened in thename of a girl child tillshe attains theage of 10 years.
●
Only one accountcan be opened in the name of a girl child.
●
An account under this Scheme may beopened for a maximum oftwo girl childreninone family.
Q) As per recently released report titled“Takers Not Makers: The Unjust Poverty and Unearned Wealth of Colonialism”,
the total billionaire wealth increased by U SD 2 trillion in 2024, with 204 new billionaires created. This report has been
released by ______________.
A. World Bank
B. Oxfam International
C. Chime Financial
D. Coinbase Global
Answer: B. Oxfam International
Q) Recently, London, the United Kingdom(U K) based data analytics and research company Global Data Plc has released
a report on the Top 25 Global Banks by Market Capitalization in the fourth quarter(Q4) of 2024. What is the rank(Q4
2024) of H DF C bank Limited in this report?
A. 9th
B. 10th
C. 13th
D. 16th
Answer: C. 13th
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as the President of Institute of Company Secretaries of India
(I CS I)for the year 2025?
A. Dhananjay Shukla
B. Pawan G Chandak
C. Vivek Deep
D. Jayant Kumar Dash
Answer: A. Dhananjay Shukla
Q) As per recent information,“Pralay”surface-to-surface tactical missile system will be displayed in its operational
configuration during the ‘Republic Day Parade 2025’. Pralay Missile has been developed by _____________.
A. Brah Mos Aerospace
B. Bharat Dynamics Limited(B DL)
C. Defence Research & Development Organisation(D RD O)
D. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited(H AL)
Answer: C. Defence Research & Development Organisation(D RD O)
●
It is anindigenously developed short-range,quasi-ballistic surface-to-surfacemissile.
●
Ithasbeendevelopedby Defence Researchand Development Organisation(D RD O)basedonthe Prithvi
Defence Vehiclefrom the Indian ballistic missile programme.
●
It has been developed for deployment along the Line of Actual Control(L AC)and Line of Cowntrol(Lo C).
Q) Recently, ______________ administration has launched the“Maha Kumbh Pathshala initiative”in primary schools to
educate students about the Kumbh Mela’s historical and religious significance.
A. Lucknow
B. Varanasi
C. Meerut
D. Gorakhpur
Answer: B. Varanasi
Q) Recently, which of the following research organizations has developed two innovations named‘Radar-Absorbing
Ni Ra La Laminate’ and‘A DR IS HY A-R AM Paint’to enhance the stealth capabilities of aircraft by reducing their radar
cross-section(R CS) and making them less detectable by energy radar systems?
A. D RD O-Aeronautical Development Establishment(D RD O-A DE)
B. C SI R-Advanced Materials and Processes Research
Institute(C SI R-A MP RI)
C. C SI R– National Aerospace Laboratories(C SI R-N AL)
D. Bhabha Atomic Research Centre(B AR C)
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. C SI R– National Aerospace Laboratories(C SI R-N AL)
Q) Recently, President of United States, Donald Trump has signed an executive order to change the name of‘Denali’
(mountain)back to _____________.
A. Mount Hunter
B. Mount Foraker
C. Mount Mc Kinley
D. Mount Elbert
Answer: C. Mount Mc Kinley
Q) Recently, Chief Minister of Gujarat has inaugurated the“G IF T International Fintech Institute(G IF T-I FI)”at Gujarat
International Finance Tec-City(G IF T City), Gandhinagar, Gujarat. G IF T I FI has been set up with collaboration of
Ahmedabad University, Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Gandhinagar, and which of the following universities?
A. University of California, San Diego, U SA
B. University of Cambridge, England
C. National University of Singapore
D. University of Chicago, U SA
Answer: A. University of California, San Diego, U SA
Q) Recently, Government of India and _____________ conducted signing of exchange of notes for National Council of
Educational Research and Training’s(N CE RT’s) Technical Cooperation project titled"Strengthening Vocational
Education and Training in Mechatronics in India".
A. Japan
B. Germany
C. France
D. Republic of Korea
Answer: D. Republic of Korea
Q) Recently, Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs(C CE A), chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has
approved the Minimum Support Prices(M SP) of Raw Jutefor Marketing season 2025-26. The M SP of Raw Jute(T D-3
grade) has been fixed at _____________ for 2025-26 season.
A. Rs.4,540 per quintal
B. Rs.5,650 per quintal
C. Rs.5,920 per quintal
D. Rs.6,140 per quintal
Answer: B. Rs.5,650 per quintal
Q) Recently, who amongst the following has won the Men’s Singles titles in the finals of“India Open Super 750
badminton tournament 2025”held at the K D Jadhav Indoor Hall in New Delhi, Delhi?
A. Goh Sze Fei
B. Lee Cheuk Yiu
C. Viktor Axelsen
D. Nur Izzuddin
Answer: C. Viktor Axelsen
●
Axelsen defeated Hong Kong’s Lee Cheuk Yiu in the Men’s Singles final while An Se Young defeated
Thailand’s Pornpawee Chochuwongin the women’s singles final
●
Note:Thiswas Axelsen’s6th India Openfinalin10yearsandhaswonhis3rd India Openmen’ssinglestitle
after winning it in2017and2019.
●
Malaysia’s Goh Sze Feiand Nur Izzuddindefeated South Korea’s Kim Won Hoand Seo Seung Jaeinthe
Men’s doubles
●
In the Women’sdoublescategory,Japan’s Arisa Igarashiand Ayako Sakuramotodefeated South Korea’s
Kim Hye jeong and Kong Hee Yong in the finals to win the title.
●
China’s Jiang Zhenbangand Wei Yaxinwoninthemixeddoublescategoryafterdefeating France’s Thom
Gicquel and Delphine Delrue inthe finals.
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, which of the following hospitals has performed India’s first-ever Left Ventricular Assist Device(L VA D)
implantationusing the Heart Mate 3 device in a government institution?
A. All India Institute of Medical Sciences(A II MS), Delhi
B. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and
Research(P GI ME R), Chandigarh
C. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi
D. Army Hospital(Research & Referral), Delhi Cantt
Answer: D. Army Hospital(Research & Referral), Delhi Cantt
5
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
28th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Union Cabinet approved the extension of the National Health Mission(N HM)for
another ____________ years after reviewing its progress over the past three years.
A. Four
B. Five
C. Six
D. Seven
Answer: B. Five
Q) Recently, India has(as an observer state) officially joined the Medium Altitude Long Endurance Remotely Piloted
Aircraft System(M AL E R PA S) or Eurodrone programme.______________ shall be representing India in the Eurodrone
programme.
A. Aeronautical Development Establishment(A DE)
B. Armament Research & Development Establishment(A RD E)
C. Combat Vehicles Research & Development Establishment(C VR DE)
D.Aerial Delivery Research and Development Establishment(A DR DE)
Answer: A. Aeronautical Development Establishment(A DE)
Q) Recently, thirteen new industrial clusters from Australia, Brazil, Colombia, India, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia,
Sweden, Thailand, and the United Kingdom have joined the World Economic Forum's(W EF) Transitioning Industrial
Clusters initiative. Which of the following industrialcluster from India is included in this initiative?
A. Kalunga Industrial Estate
B. Gopalpur Industrial Park
C. Adityapur Industrial Area
D. Narasapura Industrial Area
Answer: B. Gopalpur Industrial Park
●
The 13 new clusters include:
1.
Cartagena Industrial Cluster(Colombia):Aimingtobecomeahubforcleanhydrogenandlow-carbon
fuel production.
2.
Gopalpur Industrial Park(India): Focused on attractinginvestments in green energy.
3.
Hunter Region(Australia): A hub supporting the transitionto a sustainable energy economy.
4.
Jubail Industrial City(Saudi Arabia):Leveragingsynergiesbetweenco-locatedindustriestominimise
carbon emissions.
5.
Kakinada Cluster(India): A port-based hub for decarbonisation solutions likegreenammoniaand
hydrogen.
6.
Kerala Green Hydrogen Valley(India): Central to India’shydrogen-powered transport strategy.
7.
Mundra Cluster(India): Integrating green power withinfrastructure for large-scale industrial projects.
8.
Mumbai Green Hydrogen Cluster(India): Advancing thegreen hydrogen economy.
9.
Port of Açu Low Carbon Hub(Brazil): Leveraging renewable energy resources to provide
decarbonisation solutions.
10. Port of Rotterdam(Netherlands): Leading green hydrogen production and connecting renewable
energy to industries.
11. Saraburi Sandbox(Thailand): Focused on reducing emissions,particularly in the cement sector.
12. The Solent Cluster(United Kingdom): Aiming to leadin low-carbon investments and job creation.
13. Tranzero Initiative(Sweden):Acceleratingthetransitiontofossil-freeindustriesandtransport,starting
with Gothenburg.
Q) Recently released,Global Firepower Military Strength Ranking for 2025has unveiled the list of world'smost
powerful militaries, analysing the capabilities of 145 countries based on over 60 distinct factors. Which of the following
countries has topped in the rankings?
A. Russia
B. India
C. United States
D. China
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. United States
●
Thebottom of the rankingsfeatures Kosovo, Somalia, Central African Republic, Benin(144), and Bhutan
(145), underscoring the disparity in military resourcesand capabilities.
Q) As per recently released report titled “Sustainablenitrogen management in agrifood systems”, Livestockis the largest
contributor to nitrogen emissions, responsible for about one-third of total nitrogen emissions from human activities.
Which of the following organisations has released this report?
A. United Nations Environment Programme(U NE P)
B. Food and Agriculture Organization(F AO)
C. International Fertilizer Association(I FA)
D. Indian Council of Agricultural Research(I CA R)
Answer: B. Food and Agriculture Organization(F AO)
Q) Recently, International Labour Organization(I LO) has released its fourth edition of‘I LO Global Estimateson
International Migrants in the labour force’. As perthe report, international migrants have reached ______________.
A. 193.5 million
B. 284.5 million
C. 334.6 million
D. 384.7 million
Answer: B. 284.5 million
Q) Recently, Eastern Command(Kolkata) of Border Security Force(B SF)has commenced 10 days ‘_____________’
along the 4,096 km Indo-Bangladesh Border(I BB) ahead of Republic Day.
A. Ops Vigilance
B. Ops Alert
C. Ops Suraksha
D. Ops Shield
Answer: B. Ops Alert
Q) According to the recently released‘19th Global500 2025 report’published by Brand Finance, whichof the following
companies has retained its position as the world’s most valuable brand, with a brand value of U SD 574.5 billion(bn)?
A. Microsoft
B. Google
C. Apple
D. Amazon
Answer: C. Apple
●
Accordingto Brand Finance Global5002025report,thetopfive Indianbrandsare Tata Group,Infosys(132),
H DF C Group(164),Life Insurance Corporation(L IC,177), and Reliance Group(237).
○
L ICemerged as thefastest-growing Indian brandwitha brand value of U SD 13.3 bn.
○
Other Indianbrandsinthelistare-State Bankof India(S BI)(241),H CL Tech(262),Airtel(306),
Larsen & Toubro(L&T)(316), Mahindra(330) etc.
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare(Mo A&F W) launched the first edible oil consumption survey on
the "My Gov" portal to analyze India's edible oil consumption patterns. This supports the National Missionon Edible
Oils-Oilseeds(N ME O-Oilseeds), approved for implementationuntil ______________.
A. 2030-31
B. 2031-32
C. 2032-33
D. 2033-34
Answer: A. 2030-31
Q) Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has extended his greetings to the people of Uttar Pradeshon _____________
foundation day.
A. 74th
B. 75th
C. 76th
D. 77th
Answer: C. 76th
Q) Recently, which of the following state government has launched‘Samman Sanjeevani’app to track facilitiesprovided
under the ‘Mahila Evam Kishori Samman Yojna’?
A. Jharkhand
B. Haryana
C. Odisha
D. Chhattisgarh
Answer: B. Haryana
Q) Recently, the principal bench of National Green Tribunal(N GT) has directed the Uttar Pradesh government to place
on record the status of notifying the ‘Dhanauri water body’ as a wetland.Dhanauri Wetlandis situatedin which of the
following locations?
A. Chandauli
B. Balrampur
C. Gautam Buddha Nagar
D. Agra
Answer: C. Gautam Buddha Nagar
Q) Recently,Jammu and Kashmir governmenthas launcheda program to conserve the majestic _____________ trees
threatened by urbanization, creating a comprehensive database with geo-tags and Q R codes to track their location, health,
and growth patterns.
A. Khair
B. Deodar
C. Chinar
D. Sheesham
Answer: C. Chinar
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, Bureau of Energy Efficiency(B EE) and _____________ have signed a landmark Memorandum of
Understanding(Mo U) to jointly establish a Centreof Excellence for Energy Transition(Co EE T)in Hyderabad.
A. The Energy and Resources Institute(T ER I)
B. N TP C Limited
C. Tata Power Company Limited
D. Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited
Answer: A. The Energy and Resources Institute(T ER I)
Q) Recently, Vikram Dev Dutt, Secretary of Ministry of Coalhas virtually inaugurated digital classroomsin government
schools across Jharkhand. These classrooms are part of ‘Digi Vidya,’ a Corporate Social Responsibility(C SR) initiative
by _____________ subsidiaries.
A. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation(O NG C) Limited
B. Power Grid Corporation of India Limited(P GC IL)
C. Indian Oil Corporation Limited(I OC)
D. Coal India Limited(C IL)
Answer: D. Coal India Limited(C IL)
Q) As per recent information, Delhi is set to host the “New Delhi World Book Fair 2025(N DW BF 2025)”in February
2025. The Fair is organized by National Book Trust in association with which of the following organisations?
A. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry(F IC CI)
B. India Trade Promotion Organisation(I TP O)
C. National Council of Educational Research and Training(N CE RT)
D.National Council of Applied Economic Research(N CA ER)
Answer: B. India Trade Promotion Organisation(I TP O)
Q) Recently, who amongst the following has been announced as the‘Men’s I TF World Champion 2024’by International
Tennis Federation(I TF)?
A. Christie Jonatan
B. Axelsen Viktor
C. Jannik Sinner
D. Naraoka Kodai
Answer: C. Jannik Sinner
Q) Recently,National Girl Child Dayhas been celebratedon which of the following dates?
A. January 27
B. January 26
C. January 25
D. January 24
Answer: D. January 24
●
The theme for National Girl Child Day 2025 is “Empowering Girls for a Bright Future.”
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
29th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, Indian Army has launched advanced battlefield surveillance system‘S AN JA Y - The
Battlefield Surveillance System(B SS)’. It is jointly developed with which of the following
companies?
A. Larsen & Toubro(L&T) Limited
B. Bharat Electronics Limited(B EL)
C. Tata Advanced Systems Limited
D. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited(H AL)
Answer: B. Bharat Electronics Limited(B EL)
Q) Recently, who among the following is the only foreigner to be conferred with Padma Vibhusan 2025?
A. Osamu Suzuki
B. Jonas Masetti
C. Shinzo Abe
D. Angela Merkel
Answer: A. Osamu Suzuki
●
The Awardsaregiveninvariousdisciplines/fieldsofactivities,viz.-art,socialwork,publicaffairs,scienceand
engineering, trade and industry, medicine, literature and education, sports, civil service, etc.
●
Fortheyear2025,the Presidenthasapprovedconfermentof139 Padma Awardsincluding1duocase(ina
duo case,the Award iscounted as one).
●
The list comprises7 Padma Vibhushan, 19 Padma Bhushanand113 Padma Shri Awards.
●
23 of the awardees are women and the list also includes 10 persons from the category of
Foreigners/N RI/P IO/O CIand13 Posthumous awardees.
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) As per recently released report titled“Learning Interrupted: Global Snapshot of Climate-Related School Disruptions
in 2024”, extreme climate events like heatwaves, floods, and storms disrupted the schooling of at least _______________
children across 85 countries in 2024.
A. 110 million
B. 242 million
C. 332 million
D. 402 million
Answer: B. 242 million
Q) Recently, an international conference titled ‘Sun, Space Weather, and Solar-Stellar Connections’was held to
commemorate 125th anniversary of Kodaikanal Solar Observatory(K SO). This conference was organized by
______________.
A. Tata Institute of Fundamental Research(T IF R), Mumbai
B. Raman Research Institute(R RI), Bengaluru
C. Indian Institute of Astrophysics(I IA), Bengaluru
D. Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational
Sciences(A RI ES), Nainital
Answer: C. Indian Institute of Astrophysics(I IA), Bengaluru
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has become the first Southeast Asian nation to legalizesame-sex marriage,
marking a significant victory for LG BT Q+ rightsin the region?
A. Philippines
B. Thailand
C. Vietnam
D. Indonesia
Answer: B. Thailand
Q) As per recently released“Fiscal Health Index(F HI) 2025”, which of the following states
has topped the ranking with a score of 67.8?
A. Chhattisgarh
B. Odisha
C. Madhya Pradesh
D. Maharashtra
Answer: B. Odisha
Q) As per recently released report titled ‘Estimation and Measurement of India’s Digital
Economy’, India’s digital economy has accounted for ______________ of India’s income in
2022-23.
A. 10.23%
B. 11.74%
C. 13.22%
D. 14.89%
Answer: B. 11.74%
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
●
The largest contribution, 7.83% of the national G VA, is driven by sectors such as Information and
Communication Services,Telecommunications(I CT),andthemanufacturingofelectronics,computers,and
communication equipment.
●
Whilethetraditional IC Tsectorremainsthelargestcomponentofthedigitaleconomy,digitalplatformsand
thedigitalization of brick-and-mortar sectorsare growing rapidly
Q) Recently,Himachal Pradeshhas celebrated its ____________ Statehood Day on 25th January 2025.
A. 65th
B. 75th
C. 55th
D. 50th
Answer: C. 55th
Q) Recently released report‘Unleashing the Full Potential of Industrial Clusters: Infrastructure Solutions for Clean
Energies’stresses that collaborative, regionally concentrated clusters can accelerate the clean energy transition by
fostering new business models and utilising digital technologies. Which of the following organisation has released this
report?
A. International Monetary Fund(I MF)
B. United Nations Development Programme(U ND P)
C. World Economic Forum(W EF)
D. World Bank
Answer: C. World Economic Forum(W EF)
Q) Recently, Game Developer Association of India(G DA I), through its flagship event, the India Game Developer
Conference(I GD C), has joined forces with which of the following gaming companies to organise the “Road to Game
Jam” challenge?
A. Ubisoft India
B. Nazara Technologies
C. K Ge N
D. Jet Synthesys
Answer: C. K Ge N
Q) Recently, U NE SC O has added which of the following Indian cities to its list of Wetland Cities of the world, making
them the first two Indian cities to be included in this prestigious list?
A. Jaipur and Bhopal
B. Udaipur and Indore
C. Guwahati and Gwalior
D. Jamnagar and Nagpur
Answer: B. Udaipur and Indore
Q) Recently, who among the following was assigned the additional responsibility of Director General(D G) of the Bureau
of Civil Aviation Security(B CA S)for a period of six months?
A. Prabhat Kumar Tripathi
B. Jitendra Nath Mahato
C. Amrit Mohan Prasad
D. Prem Singh Raghuvanshi
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. Amrit Mohan Prasad
Q) Recently,National Institution for Transforming India(N IT I Aayog)has partnered with ____________ to digitally
empower one lakh individuals under India's Aspirational Blocks Programme.
A. Tech Mahindra Foundation
B. Azim Premji Foundation
C. Reliance Foundation
D. N AS SC OM Foundation
Answer: D. N AS SC OM Foundation
Q) Recently, Indian Space Research Organisation has rolled out its Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle(G SL V) on
the launchpad with the NV S-02 Satellite, part of the Navigation with Indian Constellation(Nav IC). The N VS-02 satellite
has been meticulously designed, developed, and integrated at _______________.
A. U R Rao Satellite Centre(U RS C), Bengaluru
B. National Remote Sensing Centre(N RS C), Hyderabad
C. Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre(V SS C), Thiruvanthapuram
D. Space Applications Centre(S AC), Ahmedabad
Answer: A. U R Rao Satellite Centre(U RS C), Bengaluru
Q) Recently, which of the following ship has completed the final phase of thehydrographic survey of Mauritiuscovering
an extensive area of over 25,000 sq. nautical miles?
A. I NS Nirdeshak
B. I NS Kavaratti
C. I NS Sagardhwani
D. I NS Sarvekshak
Answer: D. I NS Sarvekshak
Q) Recently,Directorate General of Shipping(D GS)has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) with
____________, to advance technological innovation and excellence in India's maritime sector.
A. National Institute of Ocean Technology(N IO T)
B. Centre for Development of Advanced Computing(C-D AC)
C. National Informatics Centre(N IC)
D. National Maritime Foundation(N MF)
Answer: B. Centre for Development of Advanced Computing(C-D AC)
Q) Parakram Diwas(also known as the Day of Valour) has been observed on 23 January 2025, to mark the 128th birth
anniversary of which of the following personalities?
A. Lala Lajpat Rai
B. Chandra Shekhar Azad
C. Subhash Chandra Bose
D. Shivaram Hari Rajguru
Answer: C. Subhash Chandra Bose
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has achieved a new milestone with its‘artificial sun’, the Experimental
Advanced Superconducting Tokamak(E AS T), by maintaining a super-hot plasma for over 1,000 seconds?
A. United States
B. China
C. Russia
D. Japan
Answer: B. China
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
30th January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently, ____________ has launched the enhanced Certificate of Origin(e Co O) 2.0 System, a
significant upgrade designed to simplify the certification process for exporters and enhance trade
efficiency.
A. Confederation of Indian Industry(C II)
B. Indian Trade Promotion Organisation(I TP O)
C. Federation of Indian Export Organisations(F IE O)
D. Directorate General of Foreign Trade(D GF T)
Answer: D. Directorate General of Foreign Trade(D GF T)
Q) Recently, Ministry of Finance has notified operationalization of Unified Pension Scheme(U PS)as an option under the
National Pension System(N PS) for central government employees, effective from April 1, 2025. This Scheme will offer
_____________ of the average basic pay drawn by a Central government employee during the 12 months prior to
retirement, provided they complete 25 years of service.
A. 30%
B. 50%
C. 60%
D. 70%
Answer: B. 50%
Q) As per recent information, Union Cabinet has approved ‘Protection and Enforcement of Interests in Aircraft Objects
Bill’, to ratify ____________.
A. Cape Town Convention
B. Geneva Convention
C. Vienna Convention
D. Hague Convention
Answer: A. Cape Town Convention
●
Cape Town Convention(C TC):
○
The C TC is an international treaty that allows creditors, suchaslessors,lenders,andfinanciers,to
repossesshigh-valuemobileassetslikeaircraft,engines,andhelicoptersiftheairlinedefaultsonlease
payments.
○
It was adopted in Cape Town, South Africa, in 2001 under the International Civil Aviation
Organisation(I CA O) and the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law
(U NI DR OI T).
○
Theconventionaimstosolveproblemsofobtainingcertainrightstoaviationassetssuchasaircraft
engines, helicopters and airframes, which, by their nature, have no fixed location.
Q) Recently, who among the following has been appointed as Director of Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre(L PS C)in
Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala?
A. A Rajarajan
B. M. Sankaran
C. M. Mohan
D. Unnikrishnan Nair
Answer: C. M. Mohan
Q) Times Higher Education(T HE, British magazine) has recently released the ‘World University Rankings by Subject
2025’. Which of the following is the only Indian institution in the top 100 for Computer science(C S), securing the 96th
position for the first time in rankings?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Delhi
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
C. Indian Institute of Science(I ISc) Bangalore
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madras
Answer: C. Indian Institute of Science(I ISc) Bangalore
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has launched Janus-Pro-7 B, a new A I model that generates detailed
images from text input?
A. Anthropic
B. Deep Seek
C. Open AI
D. Nvidia
Answer: B. Deep Seek
Q) As per the recent report by Mc Kinsey Global Institute titled “Dependency and Depopulation: Confronting the
Consequences of New Demographic Reality.”, India is projected to account for _____________ of global consumption
by 2050.
A. 10%
B. 16%
C. 22%
D. 25%
Answer: B. 16%
Q) Recently ____________ reported in its ‘Global Investment Trends Monitor 2024’ that global foreign direct investment
(F DI) increased by 11%, reaching an estimated U SD 1.4 trillion in 2024.
A. International Monetary Fund(I MF)
B. World Trade Organization(W TO)
C. U N Trade and Development(U NC TA D)
D. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development(O EC D)
Answer: C. U N Trade and Development(U NC TA D)
Q) Recently, Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has launched "Wah Ustad" which provides a platform for young,
classically trained vocalists to showcase their exceptional skills. This challenge is driven by "Dilli Gharana" in
collaboration with Ministry of Culture and _____________.
A. Doordarshan
B. Network 18 Media & Investments
C. Sun T V Network
D. Discovery India
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: A. Doordarshan
Q) Recently released ‘Navigating Global Financial System Fragmentation’ report estimated that fragmentation resulting
from statecraft policies could cost the global economy $ 0.6 trillion to ______________ up to 5 per cent of global G DP
due to reduced trade and cross-border capital flows as well as lost economic efficiencies.
A. $ 4.3 trillion
B. $ 5.7 trillion
C. $ 5.1 trillion
D. $ 4.9 trillion
Answer: B. $ 5.7 trillion
Q) Recently, which of the following states has launched Chief Minister’s Mobile Operation Theatre, a pioneering
initiative aimed at enhancing healthcare access in rural and remote areas of the state?
A. Assam
B. Nagaland
C. Tripura
D. Manipur
Answer: B. Nagaland
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has announced the successful deployment of theworld’s first-ever fusion
of Synthetic Aperture Radar(S AR) and optical imagery in orbit through its G LX-S Q payload aboard I SR O’s P SL V
Orbital Experimental Module(P OE M) platform?
A. Pixxel
B. Galax Eye
C. Skyroot Aerospace
D. Bellatrix Aerospace
Answer: B. Galax Eye
Q) Recently, India and which of the following countries have renewed theirhealth and life sciences partnershipby
signing a five-year Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U) to strengthen collaboration and sharing knowledge in areas of
mutual interest within health and life sciences?
A. United States
B. Canada
C. United Kingdom(U K)
D. Australia
Answer: C. United Kingdom(U K)
Q) Recently,Residential Mortgage-Backed Securitisation(R MB S) Development Company Limited(R DC L),set up by
_____________ has received Certificate of Registration from Reserve Bank of India(R BI) to commence operations.
A. National Housing Bank(N HB)
B. P NB Housing Finance
B. Securities and Exchange Board of India(S EB I)
D. Housing and Urban Development Corporation(H UD CO)
Answer: A. National Housing Bank(N HB)
Q) As per recent information, 2nd edition of ‘Lok Samvardhan Parv’ is scheduled to take place from 27th January to 2nd
February, 2025, at Connaught Place, New Delhi. Which of the following ministries will organize the event?
A. Ministry of Culture
B. Ministry of Commerce and Industry
C. Ministry of Tourism
D. Ministry of Minority Affairs
Answer: D. Ministry of Minority Affairs
Q) Recently, who among the following has been elected as the Prime Minister(P M) of Irelandfor a second term?
A. Leo Varadkar
B. Micheal Martin
C. Enda Kenny
D. Bertie Ahern
Answer: B. Micheal Martin
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, who amongst the following has clinched the9th Johor International Open chess tournamenttitle in Malaysia
with a dominating performance?
A. Raunak Sadhwani
B. Karthikeyan Murali
C. Iniyan Panneerselvam
D. Vidit Gujrathi
Answer: C. Iniyan Panneerselvam
●
Iniyanbeat Vietnamese G M Nguyen Van Huyin thefinal roundin an impressive performance.
●
Indian I M V S Raahuland Chinese I M Li Bofinishedsecondandthirdrespectively.
Q) Recently, who has been appointed as the acting administrator of National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(N AS A),becoming thefirst womanto lead the organization?
A. Margaret Hamilton
B. Ellen Ochoa
C. Peggy Whitson
D. Janet E. Petro
Answer: D. Janet E. Petro
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
31st January
by Dr. Gaurav Garg
Q) Recently,Forbes 50 Over 50 Global list, published for the first time ever, included the names of
three Indian women. Who among the following is not one among them?
A. Nirmala Sitharaman
B. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw
C. Sheela Patel
D. Urmila Asher
Answer: A. Nirmala Sitharaman
●
Thelistisspearheadedby Quarraisha Abdool Karim,arenownedinfectiousdiseasesexpertandoneofthe
world’s foremost H IV/A ID S researchers. Since 1998, she has led Columbia University’s Southern African
Fogarty AI DS International Trainingand Research Programme,trainingover600scientists.Shealsoco-founded
the Center forthe AI DS Programmeof Researchin South Africa(C AP RI SA),wheresheservesasassociate
director.
●
Rafaela Aponte-Diamant(2nd rank)istheco-ownerof Mediterranean Shipping Company(M SC,Geneva,
Switzerland),theworld’slargestshippingline.Sheandherhusband,Gianluigi,eachowna50%stakeinthe
company; giving her a net worth of $31.3 billion.
●
Prolificauthorandpoet Margaret Atwood(4th)haspennedmorethan50booksandpublishedinmorethan45
countries in the 64 years since her first piece of poetry was published by a small press. She belongs to Canada.
●
Indians on List
○
Urmila Asher
■
Urmila Asher, the 80-year-old entrepreneur from Mumbai secured thethird spoton the list,
■
At80,Urmila Asher,affectionatelyknownas Gujju Ben,isashiningexampleofresilienceand
reinvention.
■
Afterraisingherfamilyandenduringunimaginablepersonalloss–includingthedeathsofher
three children – she found new purpose in her later years.
■
At 75, amid the challenges of the C OV ID-19 pandemicandhergrandson’srecoveryfroma
life-altering accident, Urmila launched Gujju Ben na Nasta,afoodbusinessrootedinher
Gujarati culinary expertise.
○
Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw
■
Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, a Bengaluru-based billionaire with a net worth of $3.6 billion
accordingto Forbes,isatrailblazerinthebiopharmaceuticalindustryandoneof India’smost
successful self-made women.
■
Herjourneybeganwithapassionforfermentationscience,inspiredbyherbrewmasterfather,
and led to thefounding of Biocon Limited(Bengaluru) in 1978from a small garage.
■
Ranking32ndonthelist,shefounded Bioconin1978andhassincetransformeditintoaglobal
biopharmaceutical giant.
○
Sheela Patel
■
Sheela Patel,bornin1952,isarenownedactivistandacademicdedicatedtoadvocatingforthe
rights of slum dwellersandcreating equitable urban spaces.
■
Secured the37th spoton the list
■
In 1984,sheco-foundedthe Societyfor Promotionof Area Resource Centres(S PA RC)in
Mumbai, which has been instrumental in addressing the housing needs of low-income
communitiesandadvocating for pavement dwellers.
Q) Recently, which of the following countries has officially been certified asmalaria-freeby World Health Organization
(W HO)?
A. Georgia
B. Armenia
C. Paraguay
D. Azerbaijan
Answer: A. Georgia
1
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
●
Withthiscertification,Georgiajoins45othercountriesandoneterritorythathavereachedthismilestone,
underscoring the global progress towards malaria elimination.
●
Turkeynow remains theonly country in the W HO European Regionyet to be certifiedas malaria-free.
Q) Recently, Telangana government has extended financial support to landless agricultural families under the ‘Indiramma
Atmiya Bharosa program’, providing each eligible family with _____________ annually.
A. Rs 8,000
B. Rs 12,000
C. Rs 16,000
D. Rs 18,000
Answer: B. Rs 12,000
Q) Recently, which of the following states has become the first North East State to sign a Memorandum of Understanding
(Mo U) with Digital India Bhashini Division(D IB D)of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology(Meit Y) for
Multi-lingual Governance?
A. Manipur
B. Mizoram
C. Sikkim
D. Tripura
Answer: D. Tripura
●
Bhashini stands for B HA SHa I Nterface for India
●
Bhashini:
○
It is India's Artificial Intelligence(A I)-ledlanguage translation platform.
○
Launchedin July2022underthe National Language Technology Mission,B HA SH IN Iaimstoprovide
technology translation services in22 scheduled Indian languages.
○
B HA SH IN Iaimstotranscendlanguagebarriers,ensuringthateverycitizencaneffortlesslyaccess
digital services in their own language.
Q) Recently, ____________ has launched a digital knowledge repository named“Dharohar – Milestones in the Indian
Securities Market”.
A. National Stock Exchange(N SE)
B. Securities and Exchange Board of India(S EB I)
C. National Securities Depository Limited(N SD L)
D. Reserve Bank of India(R BI)
Answer: B. Securities and Exchange Board of India(S EB I)
Q) Recently, which of the following companies has launched revolutionarylanguage model, ‘R1’which has exceptional
capabilities in solving complex problems across chemistry, mathematics, and coding?
A. Microsoft
B. Deep Seek
C. Open AI
D. Google
Answer: B. Deep Seek
Q) Recently,“Sambhar Festival”, a vibrant celebration of culture, adventure, and heritage, was inaugurated in which of
the following states?
A. Uttar Pradesh
B. Rajasthan
C. Gujarat
D. Madhya Pradesh
Answer: B. Rajasthan
Q) Recently,Birla Institute of Management Technology(B IM TE CH) has introduced a blockchain-based digital currency
‘____________’, which is designed exclusively for the B IM TE CH’s ecosystem.
A. B IM EX
B. B IM CH AI N
C. B IM CO IN
D. B IM TO KE N
2
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. B IM CO IN
Q) Recently, India and which of the following countries have signed an agreement to amend their taxation treaty -Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement(D TA A)- in an attempt to align it with “international standards on cross-border taxation,
simplifying tax procedures, and promoting greater cooperation in tax matters”?
A. Oman
B. United Arab Emirates(U AE)
C. Mauritius
D. Singapore
Answer: A. Oman
Q) Recently,Indian Coast Guard(I CG)and _____________ have renewed their Memorandum of Understanding(Mo U)
on Maritime Safety and Security Cooperation for another three years during the 2nd High-Level Meeting(H LM) in Coast
Guard Headquarters, New Delhi.
A. Bangladesh Coast Guard
B. Japan Coast Guard
C. Indonesia Coast Guard
D. United States Coast Guard
Answer: C. Indonesia Coast Guard
Q) Recently, Prime Minister, Narendra Modi has inaugurated the38th National Gamesin
Dehradun, Uttarakhand. Which of the following sports have been included in the National
Games for the first time?
A. Yoga and Mallakhamb
B. Kuttiyum kolum and Yoga
C. Mukna and Dhopkhel
D. Atya patya and Mallakhamb
Answer: A. Yoga and Mallakhamb
●
The 38th National Gamesisbeinghostedin Dehradun,Uttarakhandduringits Silver Jubilee(25thyear)
yearand will beheld in11 cities across 8 districtsof Uttarakhandfrom28th January to 14th February.
●
'Mauli',inspiredby Uttarakhand'sstatebird'Monal',isthe Gamesmascot,symbolisingtheregion'sunique
natural beauty, diversity and cultural heritage.
●
36statesandoneunionterritorywillparticipateinthe National Games.Over17days,competitionsfor35sports
disciplineswill be held.
○
Four sports -- kalarippayattu, yogasana, mallakhambh and rafting -- will be demonstration
(non-medal) sports.
●
Yogaand Mallakhambhave beenincluded in the National Gamesfor thefirst time.
●
More than 10,000 athletesfrom across the country will participate in the event.
●
With a focus on sustainability, thethemefor the National Games this year is “Green Games.”
●
Aspecialpark,calledthe Sports Forest,willbedevelopednearthevenue,wheremorethan10,000saplings
will beplanted by athletes and guests.
●
Themedalsandcertificatesfortheathleteswillbemadefromenvironmentallyfriendlyandbiodegradable
materials.
Q) Recently,China's first Type 054 B frigate,the Luohe, was commissioned in the People's Liberation Army Navy in a
military port in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province. What is the designated hull number of the Luohe?
A. 245
B. 442
C. 545
D. 637
Answer: C. 545
Q) Recently, who among the following was named as the“I CC Men’s T20 I Cricketer of the Year 2024”at the
International Cricket Council(I CC) Awards 2024?
A. Sikandar Raza
B. Travis Head
C. Arshdeep Singh
D. Jasprit Bumrah
3
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Answer: C. Arshdeep Singh
●
I CC Awards 2024:
○
I CC Men’s O DI Cricketer of the Year:Azmatullah Omarzai(Afghanistan)
○
I CC Women's O DI Cricketer of the Year 2024 –Smriti Mandhana(India)
○
I CC Emerging Men’s Cricketer of the Year:Kamindu Mendis(Sri Lanka)
○
I CC Emerging Women’s Cricketer of the Year:Annerie Dercksen(South Africa)
○
I CC Women’s Associate Cricketerofthe Year:Esha Oza(Esha Ozaisan Indian-borncricketerwho
captains and plays for the U AE national team)
○
I CC Men's Associate Cricketer of the Year:Gerhard Erasmus(Namibia)
○
I CC Umpire of the Year:Richard Illingworth(England)
○
I CC Men's T20 I Cricketer of the Year:Arshdeep Singh(India)
○
I CC Women's T20 I Cricketer of the Year:Amelia Kerr(New Zealand)
○
Men's Cricketerofthe Year2024-Indiapacer Jasprit Bumrahwashonouredwiththeprestigious Sir
Garfield Sobers Trophy for Men’s Cricketer of the Year.
○
Jasprit Bumrahwas also named the IC C Men's Test Cricketer of the Year.
○
I CC Women's Cricketer of the Year 2024 –Amelia Kerr(New Zealand)
Q) As per recent information, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has announced ___________ to become
Assam's Second Capital.
A. Dibrugarh
B. Guwahati
C. Jorhat
D. Dhubri
Answer: A. Dibrugarh
Q) Recently, e Plane Company, has become the first private Indian firm to receive formal acceptance from the Directorate
General of Civil Aviation(D GC A) for Type Certification of itselectric Vertical Take-Off and Landing(e VT OL) aircraft,
‘the e200 X’. e Plane Company is an urban air mobility(U AM) startup incubated at which of the following Institutes?
A. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Delhi
B. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Bombay
C. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Roorkee
D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madras
Answer: D. Indian Institute of Technology(I IT) Madras
Q) According to recent information, who among the following has authored the comprehensive
biography"Soumitra Chatterjee and His World"?
A. Arundhati Roy
B. Sanghamitra Chakraborty
C. Amish Tripathi
D. Bhavik Sarkhedi
Answer: B. Sanghamitra Chakraborty
Q) Recently, who amongst the following have won the men’s and women’s singles titles of the2025 Australian Open
Grand Slam Tennis tournament, respectively?
A. Henry Patten and Madison Keys
B. Jannik Sinner and Taylor Townsend
C. Jannik Sinner and Madison Keys
D. John Peers and Olivia Gadecki
Answer: C. Jannik Sinner and Madison Keys
4
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users
Q) Recently, a renowned Cardiac Surgeon and Padma Shri Awardee ‘____________’, who performed India’s first
coronary artery bypass surgeryhas passed away.
A. Dr. K. Ramchand
B. Dr. Panangipalli Venugopal
C. Dr. K.S. Manilal
D. Dr K.M. Cherian
Answer: D. Dr K.M. Cherian
5
© Copyright 2025 Study I Q
To Download Current Affairs P DFs join this Telegram Group of Dr. Gaurav Garg -https://t.me/Study IQ Premium Users